T-10 (team 4096) Engineering Notebook 2016-2017
Section.Subsection
Subsection Title
Page Number
Section 1
Meet our Team
4
1.1
Mentors
4
1.2
Student Members
4
1.3
Past Awards
10
Section 2
Business Plan
12
2.1
Introduction
12
2.2
Mission Statement
12
2.3
Organization
12
2.4
Communication
14
2.5
Team Goals
14
2.6
Sponsors
15
2.7
Sustainability
15
2.8
Finance
16
2.9
Team Social Media
17
Section 3
Outreach
19
3.1
NEDP
19
3.2
Pollard Middle School
20
3.3
Analog Devices
21
3.4
FLL Night
21
3.5
FTC Kickoff
22
3.6
Booz Allen Hamilton
22
3.7
Hillside
23
3.8
Newton-Needham C.C
24
3.9
The Needham Times
24
3.10
The Oracle
24
3.11
Rotary Club Lunch
25
3.12
FLL Mentoring
25
3.13
Display Case
25
3.14
Facebook and Twitter
26
3.15
Teen Tech Week
26
Section 4
Hardware Development
28
4.1
Overall Design Goals
28
4.2
Two Robot Structure
28
4.3
Chassis
29
4.4
Electronics
34
4.5
Particle Sweeper
38
4.6
Particle Feed
41
4.7
Particle Flicker
44
4.8
Button Presser
49
4.9
Rolling Button Presser
53
4.10
Cap Ball Lift
55
Section 5
Software Development
57
5.1
Introduction
57
5.2
Fractal
57
5.3
Development Process
61
5.4
Brainstorming Process
65
5.5
Sensors
66
5.6
PID
69
5.7
The Camera and Computer Vision
71
5.8
Driver Controlled Enhancements
72
5.9
Autonomous
75
Section 6
Daily Documentation
77 - 175





Section 1: Meet our Team
1.1 - Mentors




Mr. Batra
Mr. Earl
Mr. Smalley



Mr. Shubin
Mr. Osborne
Mr. Mesnik

1.2 - Student Members


Project Manager
Ted Blake, a senior at Needham High, is one of the project managers of T-10. He deals with overseeing documentation, outreach, and the treasury, as well as working on hardware. His area of expertise is using the laser cutter to make precise and useful designs for the robot. Outside of robotics, Ted runs a Dungeons and Dragons group, and enjoys playing Super Smash Bros Brawl for the nintendo wii and pokemon.

Project Manager
Jack is currently a senior on T-10 and is one of the team's two Project Managers. He has been competing in FIRST for the past 8 years and is ecstatic to cap off his experience as a leader this year. Jack has focused primarily on hardware for most of his robotics experience but over the past couple of years has developed his skills in other facets of the team such as coding and organization. The two-PM system allows Jack to focus more on the development of the robot but ultimately everybody contributes to everything. Outside of robotics Jack plays a whole lot of guitar, loves to ski, occasionally plays on a Frisbee team, and tries to have a social life—to varying degrees of success.

Hardware Manager
I am Jonathan Borowsky, a 12 grader. I have done First Robotics since 6th grade and am currently the hardware manager of T-10. In this role, I organize the design and construction of the robot, and coordinate these with the software team. Outside of robotics, I enjoy programming, reading, math, and playing dungeons and dragons. I hope to study science in college and go into research.

Max Krieger
Max is in 11th grade, and the software manager of t-10. He likes linguistics, functional reactive programming, virtual reality, and hazelnut ice cream.  He is also the creator of liquidti.me, a website where users can plan out their schedules.

Outreach Manager
Ryan Warner is a senior on the robotics team. Currently, he is serving as the outreach manager of the team, and he schedules events to teach the community more about robotics. He enjoys taking math and science classes, and has participated in FIRST Robotics for the past 6 years. Outside of robotics, he is a member of a local Boy Scout troop and plays the drums.

Documentation Manager
Shaashwat Sharma, a Sophomore at Needham High School, is a two year member on the team. He is the documentation manager (he who yells at people to document), as well as a member of the software team. Outside of robotics, Shaashwat enjoys programming, attending hackathons, playing tennis, and playing Piano and Tabla.

CAD Manager
Rick, 11th Grade and Homeschooled, is the primary constructor of the team's 3D CAD models, using the PTC Creo software to accurately represent significant prototypes and changes to the robot. His primary interests outside robotics are in MUD online games and playing the bass trombone.

Training Manager
Davis Keene is a sophomore at Needham High School, and this is his second year on the robotics team. On the team, he does both hardware and software work (mostly hardware) for prototyping new mechanisms that can go on the robot.  In addition, he is in charge of training new members. He likes to program, play tennis and has a side hobby of professional yoyoing. He is an entrepreneur, and an athlete, but above all else he loves to work with robots!

Treasurer 
Tyler Osborne is the student treasurer of T-10, which means he organizes the items/parts that the team needs and submits them to be ordered. He also helps with software and other side projects as needed. He has a passion for computers in general which is what got him into robotics originally.

Creative Manager
Misha Panov is a tenth grader who loves Robotics for its push for creative and innovative thinking that increases his small spectrum of thought. He loves to do math, and is absolutely rotten at any writing. Also, VERY important, his favorite colour is Orange

Sonja Francis is a senior at NHS. She helps with hardware and the creative aspects of the team (shirts, stickers, poster, etc). Out of the team, she enjoys digital art, video games, sewing, and playing Dungeons and Dragons.

Aman Jha is a developer on the robotics team. He builds websites and gives general software advice. Outside of robotics, he participates competitively in hackathons, organizes a AR/VR club at Harvard, interns at various startups and competes in speech and debate.

William Patsios is a senior at Needham high school and a software developer for Needham's robotics team: T-10. This year he helped work on a lot of teleop code, autonomous macros, and library construction. Outside of robotics, he enjoys programming, hanging out with friends, and playing a few video games.

Jacob Cullison is a junior at needham high school. He mostly helps out with the hardware team or with some of the non robot related projects. He is very nice towards his teammates and tries to stay on task. He tries his best to contribute and help out in any way he can. Outside of robotics he plays dungeons and dragons and some video games.

Jacob Gorenburg is in 11th grade. He is part of the software team, where he mainly focuses on testing our autonomous programs. When not working on our robot, he rock climbs and plays video games.

Parth Jalihal is currently a junior at Needham High School. This is his first time participating in FTC Robotics. For this team, he was involved mainly in the production of the video. Outside of robotics he enjoys biking and playing the piano.

David Kim, Junior. I enjoy learning basic robotic hardware while doing various activities to help the team like video making. I try to find more ways I can help out the team even more for next year by learning what various people in the robotics club are doing. I am interested in programming and teaching so finding more ways to learn how to do both better (taking programming classes and trying to tutor).

Brendan Rock is a junior at needham high school.  On the robot, he helps on the hardware side, creating a ball machine that the team is investigating as an alternative.  Outside of robotics, he enjoying camping and reading.

Kurt Lindenthal is a sophomore at Needham High School. He is part of the hardware team, and constructs the hardware of the team's robot. He is also part of the NHS anime club. He likes to read, play video games, do Kung Fu, exercise, and learn about science and history.

Angelo Zymaris is 16 years old. He is a sophomore in 10th grade in high school. He helps around for the hardware of the robots and watches the older students and learns from them. Hobbies outside of robotics include playing video games, drawing, reading, and sleeping. He also has violin lessons after school on Wednesdays.

Max is a Freshman at Needham High School. He works on various hardware tasks. His favorite subject is math, and outside of robotics he is currently doing skiing and sailing.

Max Frail, 9th grade. I don't do much, but I want to learn more about the software side of robotics. I enjoy skateboarding, mountain biking, and running. "There is a very fine line between not listening and not caring... I like to think that I walk that line every day of my life" -Dexter Grif

Mark Woodnorth is a junior at needham high school and works on the hardware team in T-10. In addition to robotics he enjoys playing basketball spending time with the boys and sweet tunes. Although he isn’t the biggest nerd on the team he can still roll with the best of them in super smash bros brawl (other versions of smash bros are for "noobs") aka total domination. Mark has participated in robotics for 2 years now and has enjoyed his time at the workshop screwing things together and designing cool robots. He has a decent sense of humor but knows when its time to get down to business

Eli Breitbart-Frischling is a junior at Needham High School.  As part of T-10, he creates 3D models that are used in the robot, as well as designs which are 3D printed. Outside of robotics, he enjoys graphic design as well as 3D modeling. 


1.3 - Past Awards
Res-Q 2015-16
East Coast Super Regionals 
Connect Award Honorable Mention
Massachusetts State Championship
Connect Award Winner
Robostorm League Championship
Inspire Award Second Place
Connect Award Winner

Cascade Effect 2014-15
R2-B2 League Championship
Winning Alliance First Selected
PTC Design Award Winner
Massachusetts State Championship
PTC Design Award Winner
Asia-Pacific Invitational
Inspire Award Second Place
PTC Design Award Finalist
Control Award Finalist

Block Party 2013-14
Battle of Lexington Qualifier
PTC Design Award Winner
Finalist Alliance First Selected
Static Smackdown Qualifier
Rockwell Collins Innovate Award Winner
Finalist Alliance Captain

Ring It Up 2012-13
Lexington High School Qualifier
Inspire Award Second Place
Finalist Alliance Captain
Motivate Award Winner




Section 2: Business Plan
2.1 Introduction

Team 4096, T-10 (“T Minus Ten”) is a FIRST Tech Challenge team consisting of students from Needham High School and local Needham homeschool organizations. We have been a team for seven years, and have grown in size greatly. We are named T-10 both from our school’s mascot, a rocket, and from the initial number of members on the team, ten. We are proud to have advanced to the Massachusetts State Championship the past five years, and to have been selected to represent Massachusetts at the Asia-Pacific Invitational Tournament in the 2014-15 season.

Gracious Professionalism is a core part of FTC and a core part of our team. We follow the creed of Gracious Professionalism by reaching out to our local, greater FIRST, and greater Massachusetts engineering communities.

Our core team values beside Gracious Professionalism are to develop skills building systems, investigating different materials and how they can be applied in the FTC context, and experimenting with new control systems in programming.


2.2 Mission Statement

The mission statement of our organization, the Needham High School Robotics Club, is as follows: The purpose of the club is to develop students' interest in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) through robotics competitions and other projects.  Robotics competitions such a FIRST FTC or KIPR Botball foster student's interest in STEM, develop leadership and skills in team effectiveness, and develop a community of excited learners.  FIRST promotes "gracious professionalism", where teams compete against each other yet at the same time help each other with problems.  The NHS Robotics Club provides a place where all students, regardless of their affinity with technology, can experiment and grow. We hope to inspire students who never thought they could do this kind of work, and to encourage students to explore career alternatives.

2.3 Organization 

Our team is organized with a manager responsible for hardware, software, creative efforts, outreach, and the treasury, along with two project managers, one for overseeing robot related efforts and the other for overseeing the non robotic aspects of FTC. We have a large leadership team because we are one of the larger teams in Massachusetts with twenty five members. This allows us to have many people working on many different aspects of our team at once. To make work more efficient, we work in small teams that are responsible for different parts of the design.

One of the more unique aspects of our team organization is the flexibility of team members being able to work on multiple subteams at once. Each of the managers is responsible for the mission of their subteam, but we do not have a certain group of members who are assigned to work on each team. The responsibilities of most of the members of the team are fluid, and change frequently, something that is only able to work with efficient communication between leaders. Overall, the team is managed by the Project Managers, who oversee all the other managers and make sure that the team is moving along efficiently.

Our hardware manager is responsible for organizing the build of the robot, which includes prototyping and testing. The team includes a sub-manager responsible for CAD, something we use extensively in both the overall design of the robot and also the design and dimensions of individual mechanisms and parts.
	
Our software manager is responsible for the software design of the robot, from what sensors we use, to what algorithms we write and implement. He also works with the hardware manager and CAD manager to design the function of our robot alongside the structure of it.

Our outreach manager is responsible for investigating opportunities to outreach to the community, along with finding which members are able to attend the events once scheduled.

Our documentation manager is responsible for compiling the documentation that the team writes throughout the year into a comprehensible and efficient format, along with writing blurbs on the outreach we conduct, and on the various parts of the robot.

Our creative manager is responsible for taking photos and video of the robot throughout the year, and creating the video and poster that represent our team. He is responsible for working with a small group to storyboard the video and design the poster, along with working with the documentation manager to provide media for our engineering notebook.

Our treasurer is responsible for organizing fundraising and part orders. This includes updating the hardware manager and project manager on the state of the treasury. The treasurer also ensures that we have all the parts that we need, and coordinates with all other managers.

2.4 Communication

Our team is very large and needs effective communications to reach out and get information to all members.
Facebook group for most of our members, although some members don’t use facebook it’s often the fastest way to get information out to most people.
Everyone on our team has a slack account, and we have a group slack that also links to the Hack-her’s announcement channel so we can make announcements to both teams as well.  In addition, our documentation links to the slack as well.
We use trello to keep the team up to date on tasks, and post pictures.  Our documentation is posting on our trello cards, and we have one for each robot part.  This is automatically posted by a bot programmed by our software team that sends the comments to a channel in the slack.
Every monday we have a leadership meeting with us and the hackhers to discuss club affairs and our own personal goals for the week
We also have a group meeting every tuesday to reconvene with the rest of the team, and talk about our plans.

2.5 Team Goals

Uphold value of Gracious Professionalism
Design and build a high scoring and aesthetically pleasing robot
Develop knowledge of materials and parts
Use complex tools like laser cutters and 3-D printers to create useful parts
Develop interest of younger members in robotics
Reach out to local and school community to increase awareness of FIRST
Reach out to greater FTC community to share ideas and connect with other teams
Reach out to greater Massachusetts engineering community to gain knowledge of the real-world of engineering and opportunities when we graduate
Support Massachusetts FTC through hosting the Kickoff and through hosting league events


2.6 Sponsors
We are very grateful for our wonderful sponsors.  Without their help, through money, tools, and mentors, the club, and by extension, our team, would not be able to exist.
We are lucky to live in a town where the local companies and both present and generous.
We are sponsored by: 
PTC
Veryst Engineering
Warner Brothers Turbine
Analog Devices
Raytheon
Needham High School Parent Teacher Confrence
Needham High School Student Council
Olin College
Bose
Vertex
Interactive Automation
Needham Education Foundation
Needham Rotary Club
Trip Advisor

2.7 Sustainability

Our club has been competing in various robotics competitions for over ten years, competing in FTC, Botball, and other competitions. Our team, T-10, is in our sixth year competing in FTC, and one of our team goals is to be able to pass down to younger students a sustainable and thriving club. To that end, we place heavy emphasis on training and recruiting new members and raising money. 

The size of our team has almost tripled since our first year competing in FTC. We have been able to recruit many new members for a variety of reasons, the most important of which being our club’s commitment to free membership. We want our team and club to be an opportunity for any high-school aged student interested in engineering in Needham to gain knowledge, skills, and experience. Our club has attained a level of fundraising where we do not need to collect dues from our members. This has helped us gain many new students over the years, as clubs at Needham High School compete with each other to recruit as many members as they can from the surprisingly small groups of freshmen that are interested in joining a club. Our team also heavily emphasizes training new members, and we have tried out many training techniques in the past few years.  We are not a team that accepts new members based on tryouts or anything similar, we are committed to having a place for anyone in Needham High School or any local home school organizations.

Fundraising is one way that our club is able to sustain itself year-to-year. Because we do not collect club dues, reaching out to local companies is especially important to us. We currently have ten companies that directly sponsor our team, and three companies that sponsor the Needham Robotics Club and our workspace, the Da Vinci Innovation Lab, as a whole. We have gained these companies as sponsors both by reaching out to them directly, and also through our club’s lead mentor, Mr. Hans Batra.

We are fortunate to have six adult mentors for our team: two teachers at Needham High School, two parents of current team members, and two parents of past team members.

2.8 Finance

Our team’s budget is managed by our treasurer through the NHS club secretary and our club’s mentors. Our major budget expense is parts and materials, along with registration for competitions. The club account is shared between both Needham High School Teams.

The goal of both of our teams is to raise enough money to cover the costs of the competition, allowing us to let our members experience FTC for no cost.  This year our choice to make two different robots has increased our need for tetrix parts, and we need to replace old and broken parts.  Fortunately for us, our treasury last year left us with a large surplus, and our donations have left us in a comfortable position for funds.  This year, we have successfully gained donations, mostly from corporate sponsors, and in return we try to keep in contact with them, presenting FTC at events like Analog Device’s Conference.

Fundraising:

Source:
Amount:
Veryst Engineering
$2,000.00
Analog Devices
$3,000.00
PTC Craft Fair
$175.00
PTC
$2,000.00
Total Fundraising:
$7175.00

This year, our expenses should be lower than last year, as we do not need to buy all the new electronics, although we did need to get a few more to replace broken parts.  In addition, our parts needs have gone up due to our two robots.

Expenditures:


Total Expenses
$4787.08

Team Treasury Growth:


2014-15 Ending Balance
$ 6,028
2015 Fundraising
$5.500
2015 Expenditures
($4,164)
2015-16 Ending Balance
 $7,364

2.9 Team Social Media

Our club’s Facebook page is operated by the mentors and is located at https://www.facebook.com/NeedhamRobotics/. We currently have 205 likes.

Our team’s Twitter page is ran by our project manager and outreach manager and is located at https://twitter.com/TMinusTenFTC. We currently have 373 followers.




Team Outreach Binder

3.1: Needham Extended Day Program (NEDP)


Our team met with the 5th graders that take part in NEDP to talk about opportunities in STEM. Along with the HackHers, we showed off our robot and presented two engineering challenges to the 5th graders. We challenged them to build a bridge out of newspaper and tape that could support weights and to build a catapult from rubber bands, popsicle sticks, and a spoon. We talked about the engineering process, and how we would plan and design to complete these challenges.

3.2: Pollard Middle School Robotics Club Visit


Our team went to Pollard Middle School to visit the Pollard Robotics club which is made up of 7th and 8th graders. With the HackHers, we prepared a presentation about our robotics club where we discussed FIRST Robotics, and how our team is organized. In addition, we demoed our robot, showed our design process, and told the middle schoolers about robotics opportunities at the high school level. We plan to stay in touch with this robotics club and invite them to our lab later in the year.

3.3: Analog Devices Conference

Our team attended a conference for Analog Devices employees in Boston.  We presented our robot to Analog Devices employees alongside an FRC team.  We were also able to see many of new technologies being worked on by Analog Devices.  It was extremely interesting and we were one of the few outside groups attending and we even had to sign non-disclosure agreements.


3.4: FLL Night

Our team along with a member of Massachusetts FIRST held a night where we taught elementary school students interesting things about robotics and ran a mini competition for robots that were precoded to drive forwards and backwards. We also talked to the parents about FIRST and created awards to give to the small teams.


3.5: FTC Kickoff

With MassFTC, we hosted the FTC kickoff this year, as we did the past two year. In addition to the kickoff festivities, we also hosted seminars on PTC Creo, engineering notebooks, judging, and much more.





3.6: Booz Allen Hamilton Ideas Festival 2017

We attended the Booz Allen Hamilton Idea festival along with the HackHers, Canton Robodogs, Newton's FRC team, a FLL team, and a Jr FLL team. We talked with these teams about their robots, strategies, and experiences at different levels of FIRST. We also demonstrated our robots and explained FTC to various visitors to the event.







3.7: Hillside Engineering Extravaganza

Our team attended the Annual Hillside Engineering Extravaganza. We worked with elementary school kids to teach them about robotics by leading them in fun activities. We showed them our robot, handed out our team pins, and let them drive around the Spheros. In addition, we talked with the parents about First Lego League and encouraged them to ask their kids about joining a team. Everyone who attended had a great time.

3.8: Newton-Needham Chamber of Commerce

We attended a panel about makerspaces at the Newton-Needham Chamber of Commerce. For the first hour we manned a table and talked with many local businesses looking to develop innovation in our town. We talked with a TripAdvisor exec and some people from Make@MassChallenge about how we've used our makerspace (the DaVinci Workshop) to participate in FTC. For the second hour we listened in on a panel about how makerspaces are developing around Boston and the world and their potential as a business model around Needham and Newton. The Newton Ligerbots FRC team was also there. Overall the event was every informative and I in particular found it engaging seeing as I plan to make use of makerspaces in college.


3.9: The Needham Times

After our first qualifier, our team worked with the HackHers to write a press release for our town paper, The Needham Times. This press release was entirely written by students with the purpose of informing the public about robotics. We wrote about how our robot has performed as well as the various outreach event our team has conducted. Our goal for this press release is to get more kids interested in robotics as well as the STEM field.

3.10: The Oracle

Needham High hosts a club fair every year on a half day, where all the clubs in the school make booths and try to recruit new members. Both of the robotics team, T-10 and the HackHers came to find new members. We were successful in recruiting several new members, including Jacob, David, Parth, Max M, Max F, and Zach.
3.11: Rotary Club Lunch

Today was the rotary lunch. Basically we got out of a bit of school and attended one of the weekly rotary club lunches. We socialized and talked about FIRST, and then we led a 30 minute presentation for the Rotarians. In addition, we showed off our robot completely various tasks. It was great fun, we sang songs, they were all really impressed. Attending one of the Rotary Club Lunches has become our tradition for our team, we have attended one of the lunches during the past four years.


3.12: FLL Mentoring

Multiple T-10 members attended many meetings for various FLL teams in Needham. The experience level for these teams varied, but there were always ways for members of T-10 to help out. Members assisted the teams in learning the basics of the Mindstorm coding and constructing their robots.  We have hopes of bringing these students to see our competition robot as well.

3.13: Display Case

Our team set up a display case in the hallway of our school. We use it to display our trophies, team pictures and we also set up a marble track through the display case. We use this case to show our school what our club does to other students at the school.


3.14: Facebook and Twitter

Our club has a public facebook page that is populated with posts about our meetings and progress that our club is making. Our club has 205 likes on this page so we are able to reach a large number of people through it. Our team also has a team specific twitter account. This account has 373 followers and it helps us to spread information about our team to our followers, as well as keep in contact with many other FTC teams that we have met at either competitions we’ve attended or through the Twitter FTC community.





3.15: Teen Tech Week 

Our team was asked by our school to participate in Teen Tech Week. We set up a stand before school in the cafeteria. From the stand we showed off both our robot and the HackHers’ robot.  Students came up and asked questions about the team. We also advertised the team by having brochures printed out, and some students even asked how they could join the team.









Hardware Development



4.1: Overall Design Goals:
1. Highly maneuverable chassis for versatile movement
2. Ability to collect and store up to 5 particles for launching
3. Ability to reliably launch up to 5 particles in quick succession
4. Ability to easily push either button from one system

4.2: Two Robot Structure:
We use two robots to increase the efficiency of our hardware and software development. The hardware team can work on one robot while software tests code with another, greatly reducing competition over robot access. Because the robots have similar designs and nearly identical electronics, our code can be easily transferred between them, allowing us to develop one set of well refined software for both. Having two chassis lets us test a broader range of mechanisms, leading to better choices of designs to pursue in depth. Our two chassis this year are named Bonnie and Clyde. Clyde was mostly used for developing sensor control, and had the initial prototypes of all our mechanisms. Bonnie has all the refined mechanisms and is the one currently competing.





















4. 3: Chassis:
	Objectives:
1. Be solid and versatile, a good platform for mounting mechanisms
2. Be Maneuverable

	Iterations:

1. The first two chassis we made were bare bones A-frame chassis. They each had a vertical channel at each of the four corners, and mecanum wheels directly attached to motors on the base. This design was a pretty good starting point as it allowed us to develop some mechanisms off-robot and actually see how they would function on a robot while continuing to prototype.

	Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. This chassis was very versatile for the various mechanisms we were developing during the time it was active. Many different groups were able to get a sense for spacing and practicality, if not some outright testing time, while we were using this. However the four upright channels were less than solid, and the inner channels were solid enough, but this is definitely not indestructible.
2. The mecanum wheels definitely give us enough maneuverability for this field, however there are concerns with their fit inside the 18” size limit, and there is significant drift when driving with them.


2. This iteration of the Chassis was pretty much the same as the last one, although it was tailored to Clyde’s overall design. The two front posts were removed and replaced by the first iteration spinner. Then it was populated with the flicker, button pusher, particle chute, and electronics rack. Functionally it is the same though.
	
	Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. Although it is the same as the previous design, the structural issues with the upwards channels are more apparent now that there is a significant load on it. However the versatility of the A-frame is still impressive.
2. The Mecanum wheels are maneuverable. We can drive orthogonally, although the drift has not gone away. The spacing on these wheels is also an issue as we have broken some motors due to the wheels getting caught on the channels they are attached to.

3. The next chassis was again virtually identical to the last two. However, the vertical channels are much more solid and in differing positions. The back channels were moved towards the center by half a unit so that they could be more solidly attached. Two channels were put on the robot's left side to incorporate the belt lift. We placed posts across channels at the points of maximum stress to reinforce them, making the chassis very solid.

Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. This chassis is much stronger than the other ones, all of the solidity issues are gone. Also this chassis was versatile enough to let us incorporate the entire particle scoring setup and still keep room for a cap ball lift for the future.
2. The driving hasn’t changed since the last iterations. There is still Mecanum drift.


4. We added a pair of fiberboard plates to cover the left part of the robot. These protect our wires from collisions, and address the danger of particles getting caught in the robot and scoring repeated penalties or being unusable for our alliance. They also display our team number and sponsors. The other major change was our new mecanum wheels. Their rollers are supported from the sides rather than the center and use ball bearings rather than plastic ones. The new wheels are therefore much stronger and have much lower friction.

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The fiberboard plates slightly reinforce the left vertical channel, but the chassis is basically structurally unchanged.
2. The new mecanum wheels have eliminated the drift, and improved mobility generally.





5.   While the new wheels were much better overall, they relied on friction to transmit torque, and barely fit in the sizing cube. Part of this was caused by the wheels splaying out under the weight of the robot. As a result, we added a second motor mount to each motor about an inch further in than the existing mounts. We also nibbled the chassis channels down by about 2 mm to give ourselves extra clearance. Furthermore, the wheels would easily start spinning freely if the screw holding them in place got even slightly loose. Using the CNC machine of one of our mentors, we milled a notch into the inside of each wheel and used a long set screw that extended through the wheel hub into the wheel notch to lock the wheels reliably in place. We mounted a short vertical channel in the front left part of the robot, and linked it to the rear left channel and the particle lift rails in the center. We also made the backplate more easily removable for electronics maintenance, and added a hinged side plate. The top plate was recut to fit a new button pusher mechanism.

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The new plates do their job well and improve maintainability, The new front left channel helps stabilize the rear left channel and is itself quite solid.
2. The wheels fit within the sizing cube with about 1/8” to spare, and have not fallen off or gotten loose in several weeks, making them much more reliable.














4.4: Electronics:
	Objectives:
1. Contain all necessary controllers in a minimum of space
2. Minimize inter-module wiring complexity

	Iterations:

1. The initial electronics we used were built last year for software testing in the postseason. They consisted of a stack of motor and servo controllers held together by posts, with the PDM and sensor board elsewhere. 

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The motor and servo controllers were packed about as densely as is possible without blocking their encoder wire ports, but the PDM and sensor board aren’t as well placed.
2. The power and control wires for the modules bundled pretty well, but there was still an inconvenient mass of wires between the PDM and the controllers.


2. We put the PDM and sensor board on top of the motor/servo controller stack. Every USB/microUSB control wire port faced the same way, so they were easily bundled up on the back of the electronics block, and didn’t run near power wires. The power wires went across the front of the electronics block. We built two identical blocks in this way to allow us to easily test code on both robots. We added an an IMU and ultrasonic sensor for autonomous.
	
	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. All allowable controllers were packed into a single block, and all ports were accessible. However, the main power switch was less easily accessible than required by the rules once the block was installed on the robot, and the encoder wire ports are difficult to access. The latter is unimportant since plugging encoder wires in only needs to be done once. The USB ports lack brackets, but we haven’t been disconnecting. The PDM extends off the side of the block, wasting space.
2. The wires were separated by type and cleanly condensed on and around the block.


3. We removed one of the servo controllers entirely since we knew we weren’t going to need more than 6 servos. We put the sensor board in its place, and then centered the PDM on top of the controller stack. This allowed us to better condense the control wiring, and saved space generally. The PDM USB connectors were reinforced with a 3d printed bracket. We also built an external power switch out of legacy electronics to provide an accessible one and allow us to put the battery further from the PDM. We added several sensors into the design, including a touch sensor and two light sensors.

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. All necessary controllers were tightly packed into a single block, and all ports and the main power switch are accessible. Encoder ports are still hard to reach, and the microUSB ports remain unreinforced, but neither of these have caused problems.
2. The wires were separated by type and even more cleanly condensed on and around the block. However, when we experienced a cascade of motor and servo controller failures at the previous qualifier, we were unable to replace them in a timely fashion, and the wires were inaccessible when we needed to reconnect them to new controllers. We therefore ended up putting our replacement controllers in a disorderly mass on the empty left side of the robot. This was a bad situation, and we only had enough space because we hadn’t installed the cap ball lift.




4. In response to the motor and servo controller failures we experienced at the previous qualifier, we completely rebuild the electronics block. We sacrificed some of the compactness of previous versions to improve maintainability. All of the motor and servo controllers now slot between a pair of fiberboard plates. An axle, which can easily slide out of the way, holds them in place. The rear plate is also now mounted on an axle so that it can rotate out of the way to expose the wires. 

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. All controllers are present and are now easily replaceable; one only needs to undo two set screws and each one slides out independently. However, the block is longer, and therefore doesn’t leave space for a cap ball lift.
2. The control wires, while less compact, are still pretty well contained at the rear of the block. Encoder wires are now easier to connect. Power wires are a bit less compact, but perfectly manageable.
	



4.5: Particle Sweeper
	Objectives:
1. Collect particles from the field
2. Feed the particles into the appropriate mechanism in a controlled fashion once they’re in the robot
3. Minimize driver maneuvering required to collect particles

	Iterations:

1. The initial design, used on Clyde, was virtually a copy of the one we used for cascade effect. It consisted of a pair of outside C brackets with a channel mounted on either side, and a row of taped-together zip ties extending from each channel. The mechanism extended across the front of the robot and spun horizontally to sweep particles up into the robot and launch them into the lexan flicker. A sheet metal tube directed particles into the robot. Unlike the cascade effect spinner, this one was not geared up. 

Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The spinner effectively collected particles. Its speed was quite adequate given the particle density, and it had no structural issues.
2. The spinner gave particles enough velocity to reach the flicker, but sometimes required 2 or 3 tries.
3. The spinner was as wide as it could be without hitting the drive motors, and could reach a few inches past the front of the robot to collect particles, making it pretty easy to collect particles with a bit of practice. Getting particles out of corners is a bit trickier, but isn’t a very common situation. However, the spinner could flip the robot on its back if used against the particle because of the rigidity of the tetrix channels.


2. The first design used on Bonnie was nearly identical to the one used on Clyde, but had to interface with a different particle handling system. The only structural difference was the removal of two center zip ties to prevent the flicker from catching on the particle lift’s front guide rail. Bonnie’s particle handling system consisted of a particle lift on the right which the particles had to be pushed into and a curved piece of sheet metal on the left to direct particles towards the lift. 

Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The continued to collect particles quickly and effectively. The left zip ties began to bend due to repeatedly hitting the cap particle plate.
2. The spinner easily fed particles into the lift, but would jam when trying to collect multiple particles at once. It could hinder particle progress up the lift somewhat if it stopped in the wrong position.
3. The spinner remained easy to operate. The lack of the center zip ties had no noticeable effect.

3. The second design used on Bonnie replaced the two channels on either side of the C brackets with a single centered channel to prevent it from flipping the robot. It uses correspondingly longer zip ties. The robot can still flip over if it pins a cap ball to the wall while the flicker is running, but this scenario is vanishingly rare.

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The spinner effectively collected particles. Some of the left zip ties eventually broke due to repeatedly hitting the cap particle plate.
2. The spinner fed particles into the lift, but sometimes required a couple of tries due to its reduced rigidity prior to reinforcement with additional zip ties. It had the same jamming problems as previous versions.
3. The spinner remained easy to operate, but the driver had to wait longer for the particles to get pushed up onto the belt until we reinforced the spinner.


4.6: Particle Feed
	Objectives:
1. Deliver particles from collector to launcher
2. Buffer particles to allow us to collect several to score in succession.

	Iterations:

1. This iteration was a simple direct chute that guided one particle at a time from the spinner to the flicker using the momentum it gained from the spinner. There was one back and side plate made to catch the particles (right) and one plate that was curved inwards to direct them into the flicker’s cradle (left).

	Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. This design delivered particles to the flicker. However, particles sometimes got stuck in the top corner, and it sometimes took the spinner two or three tries to effectively use this chute. This design also ejected particles out of the front occasionally, but that happened very rarely.
2. This has absolutely no intentional particle buffering capabilities. We can drive around with one particle in the cradle and one in the chute pinned by the spinner, but that is the absolute maximum.

               
2. Bonnie was built with a particle lift to raise the particles from the collector to the launcher and store them while driving. This version used a surgical tubing belt because it can be stretched to fit snugly onto the pulley wheels without tensioners. The lift works by rolling the particles up a pair of L beams opposite it. A servo at the top of the lift uses a rotating plate to keep particles contained during collection. particles can slip against the belt once they are stopped at the top of the lift or by other stopped particles, allowing the belt to continue running and to accumulate up to three. Lumps along the belt help give the particles extra traction to get them onto the lift at the bottom and knock them into the flicker at the top. By combining lifting and storage functions, the belt design saves space on the robot for other mechanisms. 
	
	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The belt successfully raised particles, but took a few tries for the lumps to knock the last one into the flicker, slowing scoring. The belt also jams if the holes in the wiffle particles catch on the rim of the wheel, something exacerbated by the lumps.
2. The belt effectively buffered particles, but they would sometimes push it off to the side and cause it to derail from the upper idler pulley. This happens at various times when the belt is running, but mainly when it’s full or jammed. We couldn’t add an effective guard because it would have either caught on the bumps or held the particle away from them so the particles couldn’t get off the top of the lift.


3. The new particle lift on Bonnie uses a rubberized inelastic belt in place of surgical tubing, but works in basically the same way. We switched because the tubing jammed and derailed too often. The servo at the top of the lift knocks particles into the flicker in addition to containing them because the new belt lacks the bumps that we used on the surgical tubing. Those bumps worsened the surgical tubing’s derailing and jamming, and reduced flexibility. We had to add a tensioner pulley because of the belt’s inflexibility, but it seems much more durable. We had to sew it together with kevlar lift cable to assemble it, and it has since held up very well.

Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The belt successfully raised particles, but has a harder time picking them up due to the lack of lumps. It no longer jams and derails, but sometimes lost traction on the drive pulley wheel until we coated the the wheel’s channel with duct tape.
2. The belt buffers particles well, and the belt’s greater lateral rigidity keeps them from getting off to the side. However, the redesigned flow control servo reduces buffering capacity from 4 to 3, makes driver controls more complex, and slows scoring. However, some of these issues have been resolved in the code by use of macros for the scoring process.


4.7: Particle Flicker
	Objectives:
1. Score particles in the center vortex

	Iterations:

1. The lexane flicker has a rotating piece of lexan which catches on a tetrix piece, bends back, and snaps forward to launch the particle. The initial design was minimalist, with a single piece of lexan mounted directly to the motor shaft. It was strong enough to launch particles easily into the corner vortices, but not the center ones. Running it backwards made it flick much further but rapidly wore out and broke the lexane.

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The flicker failed to score in the center vortex, but was a useful prototype. Its aim was unreliable.
	






2. The next flicker used a 1:2 gear ratio to provide more torque, allowing it to use more layers of lexan and reducing load on the motor. This reduced the flicking rate but it remained perfectly adequate. The driven gear was bolted directly to the bracket holding the lexan to avoid problems we experienced in previous years with set screws. Two pieces of lexan proved necessary to get the required power. This flicker was fairly wide, with the particle sitting between two tetrix channels. We also added a plate that rotated on the same axle with the flicker to keep other particles out of the way while we flicked.

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The flicker was strong enough, and the feed control plate worked, but its aim was inaccurate and it was bulky.





3. By videotaping the flicker in action and replaying it in slow motion, we were able to determine that the bulging of the center of the lexane as the end caught on the flicker body knocked the particle slightly into the air prior to the actual flick. The resulting variability in the particle’s position at the time of the main flicker impulse was behind the variation in particle trajectory. Once we figured this out, it was easy to adjust the particle positioning so that it was just above the flicker bulge, greatly improving reliability with little effect on power.
	
Fulfillment of objectives:
1. This flicker was strong, accurate, and had working feed control, but was still bulky.







4. With a working flicker developed, we set about miniaturizing the design for use on the robot. We first tried putting the motor on the same axle as the flicker using a motor-axle adapter to eliminate the gearing, which the prototype flicker hadn’t needed. We also made the design much narrower, with the particle fully above the two channels. The flow control plate was dispensed with because we decided we could build more space efficient flow control into the particle buffer system.
	
	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The motor-axle adapter immediately broke because the shallow aluminum set screw hole couldn’t handle the torque and had its threading ripped out. This design was therefore dropped.


5. During the design process of this flicker another group went into an alternative design. Since the other flickers were not reliable enough to be effectively used, another idea was to increase reliability by standardizing the flex the lexan would undergo per launch. The idea was to have a cam rotate and push down a static piece of lexan which would then flick forward off of that. Although the prototype was promising, it was not long before the other design improved reliability greatly and this was discontinued.

Fulfillment of Goals
1. This design was incredibly reliable, however it just is not powerful enough to reach the high goal no matter how we changed the axle position and lexan strength.



6. We returned to the 1:2 gear ratio used previously. We bolted the driven gear to the outside C holding the lexan with a threaded hub spacer to avoid issues with set screws, and fixed the axle to the flicker body to act as a structural component. We kept the narrower design from the previous flicker, although we had to make this design a bit wider to accommodate the gearing. This flicker was mounted to the chassis using tetrix pipes to make its angle easily adjustable for aiming.

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. This design worked well, with strong accurate flicking, but required a third piece of lexan where the previous version had only needed two. The most likely explanation is that the particle is slightly less efficiently positioned above the flicker.






7. We experimented with reversing the flicker gearing for a 2:1 ratio to improve scoring speed and use less lexan, reducing forces on flicker components. The structural stability of this flicker was improved by adding another mounting pipe to the other side, and a touch sensor was added to detect particles for reliably scoring macros.
	
	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. The 2:1 ratio worked nicely when powered directly by a battery, but the voltage drop across the electronics made the motor too weak even with a full battery. A single piece of lexan launched the particle short of the vortex and anything more stalled the motor. We reverted to the 1:2 gear ratio, but not before finding out that a single piece of lexan backed by a half length piece worked just as well as three when using a 1:2 ratio.


4.8: Button Presser
	Objectives:
1. Reliably trigger either button from the same position
2. Simple to use software side for easy incorporation into autonomous

Iterations:

1. This button pusher, on Clyde, is a triangular piece of wood with two layers mounted directly to a servo. There is a brace behind it so that it won’t flex under the pressure of the beacon, which has greatly improved reliability. This only has to turn 90 degrees on the servo.
	
Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. This pressure can trigger buttons, but is very unreliable because the surfaces that usually hit the button are on the very ends of the triangle, and therefore miss frequently and require very specific alignment. However, if it aligns well it usually hits the button. The reliability issues are the same for both right and left buttons.
2. This is very easy to control in autonomous, with each servo value directly corresponding to a position of the pusher.


2. The current button presser on both Bonnie and Clyde is a layer of foam mounted on a rectangular piece of fiberboard. The foam provides the flexibility needed to press the button, while the fiberboard prevents the entire button pusher from bending. The fixed fiberboard plate behind the presser, retained from the previous design, allows it to rotate but not move back.
	
Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. On our field the button presser is reliable as long as it is properly aligned. There is a decent margin of error that allows for some wiggle room for drivers and autonomous. It works the same on both sides, thanks to our servo. This has been proven effective in autonomous and tele-op. However, at competitions this button pusher was woefully inadequate at dealing with the more flexible sides and it was incredibly hard to reliably press buttons in either autonomous or tele-op. It also cannot push buttons if there is a particle in between the robot and the wall.
2. The button presser is incredibly easy for the software team, as they only need to program in a single servo value for each side.



3. This new iteration was very different from the previous ones, but remains similarly simple. To allow us to push buttons without having to ram the entire robot into the wall, we bought two new linear servos and attached a plate at the end of the servos to push the button. However, since the flicker prevents us from centering the two servos, they had to be offset from the center of the robot. There are also foam pads covering the plates. The improved mecanum driving allows us to easily correct for the smaller button pushing surfaces.

Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. The plate effectively pushes the button, and its smaller surface area makes it less likely to hit parts of the beacon other than the button if it’s imperfectly angled. The system is incredibly reliable provided that it is aligned, which is within our capabilities. It is no longer stifled by particles located between the robot and the wall. The drawback is that because the servo are offset, the whole beacon approach for autonomous is offset, which complicates things.
2. These servos are incredibly easy to program once we get lined up in the white line and the wall. It’s the same code for either servo so it is simply choosing the right one to trigger. However the added complexity in aligning perfectly and having an offset position are not ideal, but by the time we implemented this design we had code to handle that. On further development with this system we have found serious concerns in actually aligning this system to the wall. Both the IR distance and the downwards facing light sensor are not as reliable as we had hoped and we are occasionally missing.



3.1 The actual mechanism to push buttons is not different, but we added two touch-sensor triggering plates to increase reliability with both distance and angle. The plates ensure that we are both a fixed distance and perfectly perpendicular to the wall when we use the linear servos in autonomous. The spacers are reeled up in the beginning of autonomous with a winch,  and then when the robot presses them against a wall they trigger a touch sensor on the other side of their axle. They were originally prototyped out of wood, but were finalized from polycarbonate. 

Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. These spacers have greatly increased autonomous reliability. The IR distance sensor we were using was not always reliable with the clear plastic field walls, so these spacers give us something concrete to base our alignment off of. The touch sensors occasionally move in their mounting if the robot slams the wall too hard, but it has not caused a failure and since the robot will only ever use these twice in a match the problem is not likely to be consequential.
2. The coding is also easier, instead of trying to interpret IR signals we only have to rely on the boolean output from the touch sensors, it is a tried and true method of aligning and it is working great. However the light sensor on the bottom of the robot is still imperfect, and although so far not causing failure, it is complicating things.




4.9 Rolling Button Pusher
	Objectives:
1. Push buttons quickly and reliably in teleop from a range of angles

	Iterations:

1. We covered the edge of a laser cut fiberboard cylinder with foam tape, left it free to rotate,  and mounted it horizontally on a spring loaded rotating bar. A surgical tube pulls on the end of the bar opposite the roller, allowing it to move in either direction but always pulling it back to the center position. The entire assembly is mounted on a second vertical pivot, allowing it to start within the sizing cube and deploy during the match. The deployed position is 45 degrees off the front right corner of the robot, allowing it to press buttons driving both sideways and forwards. This button pusher is deployed using a CR servo winch to pull it into position. A touch sensor detects when the button pusher has rotated into position, allowing us to deploy the button pusher autonomously so that it can be used immediately in teleop.

	Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. The rolling button pusher works pretty reliably, and is thick enough to work at a range of button heights. The spring loading avoids any wall ramming, and gives us some flexibility in our positioning. However, it works significantly better going forward and/or drifting right than in the reverse directions, and doesn’t work well at high speeds. Rotating the robot in place so that the roller goes over the wheel is another good way to operate this button pusher.



2.   We kept the first rolling button pusher on the robot, and built a second one using a similar design. This one was mounted on the front left corner, and also deploys at a 45 degree angle. It uses a larger-diameter tetrix wheel instead of a fiberboard one, and has a somewhat longer reach, but the same kind of foam. The deployment mechanism, however, is entirely different. The pusher starts within the robot, with surgical tubing pulling it out towards its deployment position. A servo holds it in place. When it is released, it rotates into place, and is held there by a spring loaded catch. This design is much faster, does not require a sensor, and is also easier to reset.

Fulfillment of Objectives:
1. This rolling button pusher works a bit more reliably than the other one, but the kinematics of using it are basically the same. The increased reliability is probably a result of the thinner wheel, which concentrates the force better on the button. The larger wheel diameter may also play a role, although it’s not clear if this is the case. However, the thinner wheel is more sensitive to variation in beacon button height, although it is adjustable between fields. It can catch on the top of the field wall, which is uncommon but difficult to get loose.


4.10: Cap Ball Lift
	Objectives:
1. Pick up the cap ball and hold it reliably.
2. Lift the cap ball and place it on the center vortex.

	Iterations:


1. We built the lift following the lift design that we used for Cascade Effect. We used the openrail part system to build a 4 segment lift operated by kevlar cord pulleys. I initially mounted the pulley wheels using only Tee nuts in the side of the extrusion, but then drilled holes through the extrusion to run the bolts holding the pulleys through for superior strength. In the process, I moved the pulleys closer to the extrusion to reduce torque. I added small mechanical stops in the extrusion to keep the v wheels and pulley wheels from colliding and getting damaged. I also replaced the aluminum spacers between the gantry plates and extrusion with drilled aluminum plate, since the former were too small and sat on the edges of the V in the extrusion, and therefore got loose easily. The segmented pulley system reduces the number of pulley wheels required and thus simplifies stringing and building the lift. The winch at the base of the pulley system simply wraps the string around the motor shaft to obtain high torque without gearing.

	Fulfillment of objectives:
1. Due to the drift associated with sideways driving, and the fact that the forklift is slightly too high and bends down slightly, we can’t pick up the ball very well.
2. The lift is not quite high enough due to suboptimal placement of the current gantry plate stops, but is strong enough to lift the ball with minimal bending in about 5 seconds. However, the pulley wheels need some further reinforcement, something which we did on the cascade effect robot. The mechanical stops that keep the lift segments from derailing should also be rebuilt, as the current metal L brackets are bending. The ball isn’t quite stable enough on the fork to drive it over the center vortex reliably without it falling off. Furthermore, as the winch is a compromise between speed and power, it will descend if not powered and will need a latch system to be able to hold up the ball at the end of the match if we’re unable to place it on the center vortex. We will need a limiter switch to reliably control the lift and prevent the winch from continuing at full power with the lift up and bending the pulley shafts and snapping the kevlar cord, both of which have happened.






Software Development
Max Krieger, Software Manager
The Software Team
Max Krieger
Jacob Gorenburg
William Patsios
Shaashwat Sharma

Introduction
This year, we wanted to approach software differently. In the past, we have taken a conventional approach of writing one class for autonomous, and one for teleop, but this approach has resulted in problems including but not limited to, bugs, lack of testability, and lack of collaboration.
By the end of the 2015-2016 season, we began drafting plans for this year which defied conventions that had been established on the team for years. We concluded that a robust Object-Oriented approach was the best structure and approach for our codebase because of the paradigm’s ease of collaboration, reusability, containment, and testability. Of course, even more benefits would manifest later.
The Fractal Codebase
We broke every bit of functionality into fully composable and testable “Component” classes which can be created, reused, disabled, and modified effortlessly, and dubbed it “Fractal”. The components can be gathered and organized into a hierarchy which represents a robot, and their individual statuses and documentation can be tracked using any project management tool, in this case, Trello. What resulted was a codebase that allowed the software team to work on features with agility. If one part of the hierarchy broke, it could be easily isolated, and would not take down the rest of the robot with it. Additionally, every component’s usage is practically self-explanatory. Its functionality is represented entirely in one class with defined dependencies on simpler classes.

The initial “Fractal structure”, which was ideated based on categorizing our needs.

A visualization of the Fractal class structure (in pink), showing the branches of each component type


An active state of the Trello board, linked to our github repository.
The Hierarchy
With a clearly defined classification for all components, a common set of vocabulary has become the norm for the software team. These are described in whole on our wiki, https://github.com/nhs-t10/fractal/wiki , allowing any member to rapidly familiarize themselves with the abstractions. The members of the hierarchy include the following:

Tissues represent atomic hardware devices on the robot, such as DcMotors or an IMU. We abstracted out the actual Modern Robotics API and other libraries so we could add our own augmentations and test enhancements.
Organs represent full mechanisms on the robot. They orchestrate tissue actions and expose them into an abstract command such as “Flicker.flick()” or “DriveTrain.goSideways()”. They are individually testable and can be modified easily for hardware updates.
Neurons represent stateful functions and equations, the heart of our algorithms in use. They could be simple calculations such as whether a button is ready to toggle again, or complex ones, such as PID. They have surprisingly heavy reuse throughout the codebase.
Controllers are the top level of the hierarchy. They take inputs from humans or the environment, and turn them into organ actions, extended by calculations from neurons. Each controller is essentially a self-contained control system, whether it defines a single autonomous objective, or reacts to human gamepad input. Controllers are also composable and combinable; one organ can easily be controlled by two controllers, and one controller could be used in both autonomous and teleop (many are). When an opmode is run, controllers are being constantly updated, allowing for a high level of reactive control.

An “organ”, in this case, a software representation of our button pushing system. Notice the use of a test method with two voids. Also notice the total abstraction of the hardware mapping, making remapping effortless.


Another organ, a two wheel drivetrain. This is not actually used on our robot, but it demonstrates how one can encapsulate two motors into a single class while implementing the functionality of any abstract drivetrain which can move left or right.
Now, any member of the team can get started writing a feature with little disruption on behalf of the rest of the codebase, and its morphology is clearly defined in our team wiki.
The Development Process
	As Fractal components are self-contained, it’s quite easy to divide up tasks, and to create new features with an already-defined role. This methodology has accelerated development of new features, and reduced the number of bugs we’ve encountered. Of course, no codebase is bug-free, but bugs are now isolated to their components, so they can simply be isolated and shut down if they are malfunctioning.
To aid our software process, we use a number of tools:
Trello: the statuses of every component are tracked and documented, so it’s always clear what is necessary to be done for the team, mirroring agile processes in real-world software development. We can attach pictures, ideas, team member assignments, and more for permanent archival.

Github: we use naturally use git on the team, and Github is our choice for hosting our codebase. Git makes collaboration on the team extremely simple, and we branch, merge, and pull each other’s code as if from a tree.

Github Wiki: less-ephemeral information is constantly updated in our knowledgebase of Fractal. Object-Oriented programming requires a lot of knowledge going into a codebase, and we document all of our vocabulary, figures, and concepts on the wiki, as if it were a dictionary or subset of Wikipedia.


CircleCI: our continuous integration suite constantly compiles our code remotely to ensure no simpler bugs have been missed. We can always see whether our current iteration will throw an error or compile perfectly.

Slack: All of the services listed above integrate seamlessly with Slack, our team messaging app. We can discuss issues as they flow in automatically as messages from our use of Trello or builds from CircleCI.
The Brainstorming Process
Software is a lot about experimentation, and to embrace that completely, we must ensure that our team members can code and test an idea independently. Additionally, if features aren’t being added to the codebase at a constant pace, we aren’t nearly maximizing our potential as a software team. However, this is often difficult, as once an idea is integrated into a conventional codebase, it can often break things unintentionally.
	To give our team members the freedom of coming up with ideas while maintaining a functional, growing codebase, our software structure is engineered in a way where even the most radical ideas can be categorized into the basic hierarchy. When we wanted to integrate the PID algorithm into our codebase, an approach which our team has never tried before, we already had a category for algorithms: the neurons. Our codebase has only been growing in size since day one, and there have been little to no problems encountered with such rapid expansion.
	We started the codebase with the basic necessities, such as motor and servo API wrappers, as well as some “sample” components, such as a two-wheeled hypothetical drivetrain. This was functionally a proof-of-concept of our new codebase structure.
	
	Our two-wheeled drivetrain class, which has no hardware counterpart, but demonstrates the Fractal API in full.
	As the season progressed, we began integrating the hardware counterparts and software control systems necessary for accomplishing our objectives. We focused on doing such with agility, as embarking on projects which may seem large, as we quickly learned, is less efficient than breaking problems down into their simpler constituent parts.
Use With Two Rapidly Evolving Robots
Thanks to the self-contained and testable design of Fractal, our two chassis can run almost the same exact codebase. The hardware doesn’t even need to be completely identical on both, we can run the same controller on two robots as long as it has a single common organ (such as a drivetrain).
Sensors
Camera
We use our Moto G2’s front-facing camera for computer vision operations. It is mounted with a customized 3d-printed case onto the rear of the robot, where the beacon hardware is. We use it to detect the status and position of the beacon.
Light Sensors
We custom-built a light sensor module specifically for detection of the white line, containing two light sensors and two LEDs spaced apart the width of the line. As these light sensors only respond to received light, we emit light onto the ground with LEDs, and the diffuse reflection from the line is accurate enough such that we can find the relative right or left position of it. As a result, we can align to the line and follow it during both autonomous and teleop.
IMU
We use the Adafruit BNO055 Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), primarily for navigation and positional alignment. It contains a magnetometer, accelerometer, and gyroscope, which lets us postulate the pose of the robot and perform sophisticated positional maneuvers autonomously.
Ultrasonic

Excerpt from the MaxBotix datasheet, indicating the drawbacks described.
We use the MaxBotix ultrasonic sensor for getting long-range versatile distance from our robot’s rear. The sensor performs very poorly and unreliably at distances less than 30 centimeters, so it is only used for long-range obstacle detection, and the latter portion of navigation from the starting wall.
IR

Feedback diagram from the SHARP datasheet, indicating the benefits described.
We use a SHARP Infrared distance sensor for very close-range and precise distance measurements from the rear of the robot. The sensor can cover the range from the 30-centimeter dead zone of the ultrasonic sensor to the 5 or so centimeter zone where the robot is nearly touching the wall. Because the sensor uses light, it is difficult to use on most of the field’s transparent plexiglass surface. However, the paper patterns below the four beacons obstruct this opacity, and thus it is perfect for navigating to the beacon.
Touch Sensor
We use a touch sensor on the perch of our flicker mechanism so that we can automate shooting particles in both the autonomous and driver controlled period. The modifications made allow the software to detect the presence of a particle in the perch which must be fired, or the lack thereof, necessitating dispensing another particle.
Additionally, we use two touch sensors on our spacers so we can detect contact with the wall when we advance toward the beacon, and even failsafe our autonomous if we detect an unexpected collision. If we unexpectedly collide with the wall, the robot will back up and rectify its position.
Finally we also use a touch sensor to detect when one of our button pushing rollers is fully extended.
We use most of these touch sensors in a maintenance opmode to reset the robot after matches. The roller’s touch sensor unwinds that roller’s winch, allowing us to more easily stow it, the right spacer’s sensor unwinds the spacer winch, and the left spacer’s sensor toggles the servo release for the left roller.
PID
	Last year, we began using an inertial measurement unit (IMU) for magnetometer-based heading. Heading is an important part of our navigation on the field, both in autonomous and teleop, as otherwise, directional control is difficult. In previous years, we used a control system to couple our heading with our drivetrain known as “bang-bang”, which essentially reduces the error between our heading and our desired pose using primitive forward and backward movement until within a threshold.
	This year, we learned of the PID algorithm, which uses a much more efficient and educated approach to the error-reduction problem. We make heavy use of the Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID) algorithm on both autonomous and teleop. The PID algorithm can reduce an error value with precision, reducing oscillations, misses, and other woes commonly seen with robot control. We decided to take it a step further by making the algorithm abstract and testable, meaning it can be applied to virtually any use case.
 
The PID algorithm (Wikipedia).

The PID algorithm’s implementation and usage for angular driving.
Pivoting
With our IMU sensor, as noted, we can turn to an exact angle within an error tolerance of 0.3º using the algorithm, making autonomous consistent and effortless. Without this sensor and algorithm fusion, it would be impossible to utilize any sort of angular motion.
Angular Driving
We can pad the pivoting use case from above with additional motor power, which allows for automatic forward heading correction (driving straight). The robot’s drivetrain tends to drift, so it’s a huge help to be able to drive in a completely straight line indefinitely.
Line Alignment
Not only can the IMU be used with PID, but we can also use our line detection sensors (two light sensors) to follow a line without drift.
Reflection
	The development of our PID implementation was initially easy, however tuning it, as many users of PID find out later on, becomes arduous. The PID algorithm requires tuning to proportionally speed up and slow down without major imperfections, and the tuned constants vary depending on the robot and application. We fell victim quickly to this issue. We noticed match after practice after match that sometimes the robot won’t even reach its defined goal.
	We solved this with a number of approaches, which ended up working well together:
Auto-Tuning
Our first solution was making the constants in PID adjustable in real-time, meaning we can use the gamepad to change our “Kp” value until it’s ideal. Next, we worked on making the constants optimize themselves through autonomous trial-and-error, which then returns constants optimal for the robot’s inertia and drivetrain.
Minimum Motor Value
	We realized that the robot would not move under a certain motor power, creating a PID “steady state error”. To solve this, we wrote a controller which lets the user adjust the motor power in intervals until the robot begins to move. We can adapt our minimum based on any robot, as the program is reusable.





The Camera & Computer Vision
	It’s necessary to be able to “see” the beacon for the robot to press the correct button in autonomous, and even at times, teleop. We used OpenCV for android, an open source computer vision library providing its own rapid edge detection algorithms to detect colored “blobs” and the beacon’s outline, and from that, we can postulate the status, position, and proximity of the beacon using the phone’s camera. Another FTC team, LASA Robotics, succeeded in building a library on top of OpenCV with this blob/edge detection to detect the beacon, so we opted to modify and use it for the sake of not reinventing the wheel. The key elements and rationale behind the algorithms are as follows:
Color Filtering

The HSV color bounds used to detect blue/red in the environment.
To detect colored “blobs” in a scene, the logical first step is to filter out any objects which aren’t within a desired color range. For instance, an object on the green color spectrum is irrelevant to finding a beacon half-lit red and blue.
Edge Detection
With the filtered image, it is necessary to find “blobs” which are likely to be part of a beacon. OpenCV detects contiguous edges of objects with its “contour” algorithm, and thus the most likely contour in the scene that is the beacon would be the largest contour.
Position Detection
Once the largest red and blue blobs are found, OpenCV provides the “moment” algorithms necessary to find the centroids of both postulated blobs. Because we are looking for the status of the beacon (what color is on the left/right), whichever centroid has the larger “x” position from the left edge of the frame is likely to be the color occupied by the right half of the beacon.


Accuracy test from LASA’s FTCVision library https://github.com/lasarobotics/FTCVision


Driver-Controlled Enhancements
Thanks to the Fractal structure, making automated driver assistance is quite easy. In fact, because some controllers are used between both autonomous and teleop, it can often be effortless. To pack/string autonomous controllers together into a teleop command, we created a “Sequencer” class, which uses array of controllers and runs them one-by-one to accomplish a task.

A sequence of controllers which aligns to the nearest wall, drives to the nearest line, and aligns again to compensate for drift. These same controllers are used in autonomous as well. 
Auto Load and Flick
Our robot’s design can often make micromanaging particles to flick difficult. We composed a sequence which loads a particle into the flicker, then detects its presence with a touch sensor, and flicks the particle, all with one button. As a result, we can rapid-fire a number of queued up particles with little effort.
Beacon Auto-Align and Press
Pressing the beacon in teleop is essentially the same process as pressing the beacon in autonomous. We have to align perfectly to the white line and drive inwards to an optimal position. Additionally, it’s often difficult to do this when vision from the driver is limited. Noticing these parallels, we simply took the autonomous controllers and composed them into two macro commands, one which aligns to the nearest beacon on the left, and another which aligns to the nearest beacon on the right. The driver simply presses a button and the robot will drive sideways to the line, align itself to the nearest wall, and drive to the beacon to await pressing instruction. We used the light sensors, IMU heading, PID, and IR sensor, respectively. The robot also prevents accidental drift into the wall by backing out if it reaches a certain threshold with the ultrasonic distance sensor.
Nearest Wall Auto-Align
A simple issue that drivers often face is just being able to align orthogonally to a wall. We solved this too with a press of a button and the PID algorithm fused with the IMU. The robot detects the nearest wall-orthogonal pose and turns to that (e,g, if the robot is at 88º, it will align to 90º, the nearest orthogonal pose).
Control Query Language
One difficulty for many teams is remapping gamepad controls. On Fractal, this is effortless. We abstracted out controls into “control query strings” that specify which gamepad(s), what button/joystick, and whether a “shift” key is necessary (holding down shift and the other control satisfies the condition). It becomes extremely simple to define and redefine complex custom actions such as “pressing A on either controller when B is also pressed”.








Our current mapping for all controls on the robot. Any team member can learn and remap these instantly.


Autonomous Sequence

Our autonomous plan is as follows:
1. Navigate straight from the wall using ultrasonic distance until at the center vortex.
2. Turn using magnetometer heading to precisely aim the robot.
3. Flick a preloaded particle into the center vortex. Then, reload an additional particle and flick that when no particle is detected as present.
4. Navigate to the first beacon using automatic heading correction.
5. Once the robot detects the first white line, it pivots to be aligned to the wall. Geometrically, the chassis will not be perfectly aligned to the beacon or the line, so the robot then navigates sideways until the line is detected again.
6. The robot drives forward while collecting frames of the beacon’s status for OpenCV vision processing. Once 15 frames have been collected, the status of the beacon is postulated. The robot then continues forward to an optimal distance and presses the beacon.
7. Once the vision processing detects a pressed beacon, we drive backwards and sideways to prepare for driving to the next beacon.
8. The robot drives sideways and actively corrects its distance from the wall.
9. It repeats the steps described above for pressing the beacon. Then, it backs out and aligns itself perpendicularly to the nearest wall so that the teleop phase’s IMU is properly calibrated.
We have had a very high success rate with this, consistently ending up being a 90 point autonomous.

















Section 6: Daily Documentation
6.1 - September Documentation
 
9/13/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 1
Attendance
Shaashwat, Alex, Max M, Jacob B, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Davis, Jacob G, Angelo Z, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach

Meeting Plan
1. Begin brainstorming process by evaluating the various game objectives.
2. Take down general ideas on possible mechanisms for the objectives.
3. Develop a set of questions to answer once we get the field

Task
Details
Full Name (grade)
1. Brainstorming scoring mechanisms 
Today, our group spent the majority of our meeting brainstorming means of scoring points. We came up with a few ideas of movement that optimized speed and maneuverability. These ideas consisted of the utilization of mecanum wheels, normal wheels, monster truck wheels, and treads.  As for scoring, we considered the use of “The Claw”, a device that would project the particles consistently into either/both vortexes, and an arm to trigger the beacons. While considering these ideas we also considered the amount of time that would be needed to create such devices and the spacing on the robot. 

Mark Woodnorth
(11)
2. Brainstorming and Learning robot basics


First talked about the mechanism for putting the particle into the corner vortex(competition), about various ways to do so, and about how those ways will become possible to do(controlling). Also learned from Davis the basic programming/robotic basics and relationship 

David Kim
(11)
3. Starting Cad model of future robot

This is the primary product, a rough model of the ball machine concept. (input particle through it for acceleration.)

This is a secondary product: an a-frame model for importing modular assemblies: while the final robot may not be modular, this will help with maintaining a modular model for modeling how various conceptual systems will interact.


Rick Morin
(10)
4.
Brainstorming & Teaching new members
Today, the ACG members were able to meet and discuss their previous robotics experiences and go over very basic code and tetrix robotics. Leading the discussion, I was able to inform them about my previous robotics experiences with ACG and together we came up with some questions about the center vortex.

Davis Keene
(10)
5.
Brainstorming particle scoring mechanisms
Particle launching:
1. Wheel-based ball machine: speed can be controlled, and it’s fairly powerful, but power hungry
2. Spring loaded: 1 output velocity, but low power, more compact than ball machine
Particle collection:
     Low goal: park on the ramp and shoot the particle at an angle so it always goes down the same side; collect it from that side
     High goal: extend arms from top of robot to stretch out a cloth; collect particles at some point and launch them from one side; if one side of the basket can be reached reliably, the net need only cover part of the area under the deflector cone. A rubber bumper can keep the center vortex from spinning.
Jonathan Borowsky
(12)
6.
Brainstorming cap ball mechanisms and software strategy
A claw mechanism with a lift. Also installing android studio, upgrading sdk, and computer vision.

Max Krieger (11)

Reflection
Today was the first brainstorming day of the season. I started by trying to engage the team in discussing each objective in detail, as to better compare them and to create an optimal strategy. I introduced a metric, points per second (PPS), to better compare the objectives and we discussed the autonomous mostly, but we also discussed the merits of each type of particle scoring. Then we broke up into groups where I assigned each group to come up with a list of questions about the field they wanted to know as they were brainstorming. I hope to use the answers to these questions to streamline future brainstorming. Overall I was a little disappointed with how the meeting ran. Although there was plenty of good discussion between many team members during all times of the meeting, I noticed many people who were uninterested by the format of brainstorming I introduced this year. I hope the field will help us answer the questions I asked each brainstorming group to make and make the format seem less theoretical. I also want to make the format a little more interesting, especially for newer members. I plan to remedy this by breaking up into groups more, and cutting down on excess stuff in the PPS system and do a little grunt work myself to make it more usable for the team. Below is the list of questions generated by the brainstorming groups and an updated scoring chart which includes PPS values.

PPS = Points Per Second, a way to calculate the value of attempting to complete an objective
Jack Bond (12)

******************************************************************************************************************************************

9/15/16 3:00-4:30 Meeting 2
Attendance
Shaashwat, Sean, Alex, Max M, Jacob B, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Aman, Jack, Max K, Parth, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Angelo Z, Max F, Ted

Meeting Plan
1) Build the Field, Continue to train/introduce new members
2) Convene and answer the set of questions from tuesday
3) decide on strategic options
4) Begin design discussion

Task
Details
Full Name (grade)
1. Field Building
We made good progress on assembling the field.  We got the base and the tiles fully set up and began to put down the tape.  Next, we assembled together the center vortices.  It is possible that we will need to buy special tiles so that the vortex platform does not make a large height difference with the tiles. We started also on both the side vortices as well.  Jonathan drilled in holes in the center to put screws in so it will not spin more than needed.  Our progress on the field is good, it should be done next meeting and we should be able to answer our questions even sooner than that.
Ted Blake
(12)
2. Getting Test Bot Running
We tried to get the test bot up and running. Unfortunately the FTC SDKs were incompatible so we’ll be trying to upgrade them.
Max Krieger (10)
3. Working with New Members
Today, I went over basic Arduino syntax and helped the ACG team program some blinking light projects. Because the field isn’t built and most of the ACG members have little coding experience, it was something to do that was productive. 
Davis Keene (10)
4. Field construction and hardware
I switched the test robot’s wheels out for mecanum wheels, which just barely fit in the 18” box (shaving rubber off the ends will make them fit if necessary). Some younger team members worked on this as part of hardware training. I built a prototype spring loaded particle launcher out of tetrix and a cascade effect tube. Surgical tubing should be ordered for a stronger version. More rubber bands should also be purchased for general use The particle launcher does not have a winch/release mechanism yet. I also assembled the central yellow T for the field. 
General note:
For low goal scoring, it seems that parking at the base of the ramp by one return ramp and launching the particles so they bounce off of the opposite wall and then go down the ramp along the near wall towards the robot is feasible. However, reliable aim and velocity is required.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Unfortunately we did not get through most of the plan today. Only the first point was really reached. About half the team worked on the field, and there is a really small amount of it left. The other half did a combination of things; Davis and Tyler did some robot demos with the new members, Jonathan led a small team to mount mecanum wheels on the test chassis we made at the end of last year. Hopefully the field will be completed tomorrow, but definitely in time for the next meeting on tuesday, the real brainstorming discussion starts then. I aim to wrap up goals by next week and start prototyping the following one, if not thursday. Overall I think the field will help the team focus more, things will be less abstract.

Jack Bond (12)

******************************************************************************************************************************************

9/20/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 3
Attendance
Ted, Jack, Shaashwat, Jacob B, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Max K, Parth, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Angelo Z, Max F

Meeting Plan
1) Think tank for ideas for mechanisms
2) Set prototype groups and start collecting data

Task
Details
Full Name (grade)
1. Brainstorming for infinite scoring loop
Today Ted, Jacob and I came up for an idea for an infinite scoring loop on the end vortex’s. We decided to create an artificial ramp, and launch a particle off of a curved wall which will guarantee that the particle will roll in the direction we want it to. Using cardboard models, we have a good idea for what this will look like and prototype soon.
Davis Keene (10)
2. Brainstorming button pressing maneuvers
On this holy night, we concocted a brilliant plan to activate the highly praised and needed buttons. We have decided to use a system in which a plate will turn upon an axis and activate the buttons with relative efficiency. The prototyping will commence with utter rushing in the next gathering of teammates.
Misha Panov(10) &
David Kim (11)
3. Hardware
I suggested rotating button-pushing plate, and built a prototype of the lexane flicker launch mechanism. The flicker needs only 1 degree of freedom, making it very simple and robust. The prototype is nearly ready to be used for testing. The lexane may need periodic replacement. Folding/fitting all of the mechanisms into the robot needs more planning. We are probably prototyping too many different launchers.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
4. Catapult prototyping
Designed and began prototyping a catapult particle launcher for testing the feasibility of using one in competition.
Alex Shubin 
(12),
Angelo Zymaris
(10) &
Parth Jalihal
(11)
5. Software Testing
Today we tested mecanum teleop code that had been written throughout the week. We were pleased to find out that the code worked almost as we expected.
William Patsios (12) &
Max Krieger (11)
6. Choo Choo 
Today we began the creation of a projectile launch mechanism we have named The Choo Choo. The idea was to create a simple mechanism capable of launching the particle consistently. So far we have a basic outline and have gathered the materials required to undergo this project.  We can expect a functioning model by next tuesday.
 
Mark Woodnorth (11)

Reflection
Today was a bit of a rollercoaster. The think tank went really well I thought, we had a variety of input from all facets of the team and even some research from other teams, I think we ended up with a comprehensive list of ideas to prototype. Although it went a little longer than I anticipated, It didn’t take too too long and was overall great for the team. After the think tank we moved into prototyping groups. Although that process was slow and inefficient, I had to literally assign groups, once we got working things went smoothly for the rest of the meeting. All of the groups made good progress and I think after a couple of meetings of prototyping we should have the necessary knowledge to make serious design decisions and work on building actual robots.
Jack Bond (12)

******************************************************************************************************************************************

9/22/16 1:00-4:30 Meeting 4
Attendance
Ted, Will, Rick, David, Sonja, Misha, Shaashwat, Jonathan

Meeting Plan
1. Work on particle scoring mechanism
2. Improve mecanum wheel driving
3. Start CADing of designs
4. Start second chassis

Task
Details
Full Name (grade)
1. Building second chassis
Today I helped making the base of the second chassis from seeing what others were doing and following what they did, after that went and saw how the cading is done by watching and trying to help by seeing all the part, learning how to it is done, and also tried controlling the robot and learned some features like drifting.



David Kim (11)
2. Second chassis, prototyping
We built a duplicate chassis, complete with half of an electronics rack (enough for the four wheels). One of its mecanum wheels is missing a segment. I built a working lexane flicker, and a prototype ball machine. The flicker is in the process of being mounted on the robot. We should build a better flicker because research demonstrates that they can definitely reach the high goal. A good flicker may well obviate the need for a ball machine, given the latter’s high power use.
Ordering:
1. Anderson powerpoles (urgent)
2. Fuses (important)
3. An 8th motor controller if the broken one can’t be fixed so that we can have 2 complete electronics racks
4. Rubber bands (to be purchased locally)

Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Because of the half day there was a small crew today, but the progress we made was excellent.  We took a break from brainstorming and worked on the infrastructure of the robot.  This led to programming making improvements on the drive code that not only got us driving but also let us use the mecanum wheels to move side to side.  Jonathan made a flipper of lexane to launch the particles, and it proved more than strong enough for the low goal.  Hardware worked on getting our 2nd chassis built.  This is so we can test on 2 robots different designs.  We got in new electronics so those are added.  We still need a few more to come in, however.  Rick has made great progress on cading, and he’s teaching David as well.  At the end, we set the goal to score a particle by next meeting.  Things are looking very happy
Ted Blake (12)

******************************************************************************************************************************************

9/27/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 5
Attendance
Shaashwat, Sean, Alex, Max M, Jacob B, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Parth, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Angelo Z, Max F, Ted, Ryan, David, Mark

Meeting Plan
1. Talk about ban on closed loops
2. Brainstorm more
3. Reevaluate Prototyping Priorities
4. Work on Prototypes

Task
Details
Full Name (grade)
1.Driver team Creation
Today we continued thinking about how to accomplish the tasks, but also moved into creating mechanisms.  We also had to talk about the ban on closed looping systems, as that was going to be a major part of our plans.  This forced us to reevaluate our plans on scoring in the low goal.  Due to this change the low goal now seems unviable for point scoring.  Thus, we are moving towards getting particles into the high goal, which should get us more.  This new focus on high goal means we needed to pare down our shooting options so we can focus on the most efficient ones and move forward with those, however we can keep some options as goals to focus on long term.  On an unrelated note, I am moving forward with making drive teams by asking for groups of 3 to sign up.  The plan is to start meeting on fridays for about half an hour to an hour to just drive.  Our two chassis's should help with that.

I asked around for driver teams and got some responses.  So far we have 4 teams.
1. Ted, Jack, Will
2. Misha, Sonja, Jacob
3. David, Alex, Ryan
4. Davis, Shaashwat, Tyler
Ted Blake (12)
2. particle Collector Design 
Determined that a spinner would be the best method for acquiring particles. Collaborated with particle launcher team to determine how best to implement it, and began designing a prototype.
Alex Shubin (12)
3. Ball machine design
Tried Jonathan’s prototype of a flicker mechanism, did not launch particles fast enough and determined that the two wheels were too far apart and needed to be close. Tried to make a shorter tetrix piece but have not finished.

Jacob Cullison (11)
4.Button Pressing
On this Tuesday evening the group consisting of Parth, David, and Misha have been prototyping of the button activating system, (B.A.S.). The system has been built but still needs to be tested on the robot. 
Misha Panov (10)
Building chassis 
We put together the chassis for the second robot and mounted flipper on first robot, as well as began practice driving!
Sonja Francis (12)
Programming IMU tissue 
I added another feature to the IMU tissue (sensor). You are now able to easily get the acceleration using the IMU sensor in the teleop or autonomous opmode. To use it, you use the function getAcceleration(); 
Shaashwat Sharma (10)
Modeling 
I modeled the mecanum wheels attaching to the robot, and the lexan flipper launching mechanism. 
Rick Morin (11)
Electronics
We got the electronics on the new chassis working, then disassembled the electronics on the old chassis to send to modern robotics. When we get the electronics back we should build 2 identical electronics modules containing a pdm, sensor board, 2 servo controllers, and 4 motor controllers each. This will make wiring much easier and keep the connections from coming loose easily. The consistency should also make it easy for software to port their code. The electronics module will probably go beneath the particle launcher. We should 3d print a second usb connector clamp for the new pdm.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Today was a little chaotic, but still productive. We began with a discussion of the latest ruling banning continuous feed mechanisms for particle scoring. This led to a redelegation of prototyping groups with a heavier focus on button pushing and less launcher designs. After this discussion we broke out into the reassigned prototype groups and continued development. I floated around and had to frequently keep people on task, but most of the groups made really great progress and we seem to almost be ready to formulate design ideas.

Jack Bond (12)

******************************************************************************************************************************************

9/29/16 2:35-4:30 Meeting 6
Attendance
Ted, Jack, Max, Ethan, Jacob, Misha, Jonathan, Will, Shaash, Jacob, Perth, Eli, Rick, Jacob, Brendan

Meeting Plan
1) Continue prototyping
2) Prepare for electronics firmware updates
3) Have progress reports for design meeting

Task
Details
Name
1. Project Manager
I floated around to various tasks today. Of the prototype groups I worked with two deserve additional input to this log on my part. For the flicker arm I finished what jonathan was working on on tuesday and attached the new piece of lexan. I also did some tests of the system and determined that it needs to be a little more powerful to be applicable. Lots of promise though. Secondly I worked with the collection system group. After switching to a 12-volt battery I determined that the collection system from cascade effect would indeed work with this year’s game. It was easily powerful enough to lift the particles. In addition to that I determined that the system of spinning sweepers was powerful enough to shoot particles into the low goal with ease. It’s definitely looking like we’ll be incorporating a similar system.



Jack Bond (12)
Robot Chassis Fixes
Today we fixed the new robot chassis to work with the code whilst testing the new modern robotics modules we received. Everything worked out in the end so...yeah. 
Misha Panov (10)
Choo Choo
I helped build the "choo choo" low goal scorer. 


Sonja Francis (12)
Image Recognition 

Today I started working on a camera tissue (sensor) which will be used for image recognition. I started reading how it works and edited and installed an example app 


Shaashwat Sharma (10)

Reflection
We made some progress on the prototypes for the robot. The plan is to have the groups present what they found this week and talk about if we should move forward with it.  If an idea is not found sufficient, we can talk about other ideas or spend more time on it.  If it is, we can work on building it into the robot.  We need to send back the electronics for updates, but we have 1 working chassis so that should be enough for now.  Once we get those electronics back, we will have 2 robots to test on which should help stop development bottlenecks. Prototypes seem to be going along slowly for the most part, but out chassis work is ahead of schedule.  Will is doing excellent work on programming them. Once he’s done with that we can get some autonomous work in, which we want to test before hardware really takes the robot.  We’ll have to reevaluate our hardware design after the presentations on Tuesday. Overall I’d say we’re on a good schedule and look forward to further development.
Ted Blake (12)

******************************************************************************************************************************************

9/30/16 2:35 to 3:30 Meeting 7
Attendance
Ted, Jack, Jonathan, Misha, Sonja, David, Jacob, William

Meeting Plan
1. Practice driving
2. Get a little work done on hardware

Task
Details
Name
1. Driver Practice
The team worked around with driving the robot and getting settled with the controls. Because we sent back our modules to get upgraded, only one chassis is operational.  This set back our plans but it’s fine because we just wanted people to get more comfortable with the control scheme. 
Ted Blake (12)
2. Repaired Particle Flicker Prototype
I worked a bunch with the flicker prototype today. While driver practice was going on I led a couple of people and improved the design. We started by testing the current system, we got it to a usable state with a suitable launch distance. Unfortunately that one broke after four launches. So that triggered a complete redesign. We started by rebuilding it to gear it down. This lowered the speed by upped the torque. With this system the lexan would have more time to recover in between flicks and more power for each flick. This system, however, was not powerful enough and was only launching particles like 2 feet up. The next addition to the design was a second piece of lexan. This made the flicker more rigid and able to store more energy. After this addition the flicker was reliably launching particles high enough to clear the high goal.

Jack Bond (12)
Misha's button pusher 
Misha came up with a prototype for a button pusher that uses a servo for the Beacon mission. I wrote the software for it and created a new controller and opmode that uses the Servo tissue. Unfortunately there were merge conflicts when I pushed to git so that set my progress back a little. I hope to have it completed by next meeting.
Shaashwat Sharma (10)


Organization
I reorganized the electronics. Breadboard electronics, motors, servos, and batteries have their own boxes. Control wiring and sensors are in one husky toolbox, and power/servo/motor wires are in a second. This eliminates some the previous system of sensor boxes and makes things easier to find and access.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Today was a short meeting, as was intended.  We got to drive around and get more people moving the robot.  Soon, we should be able to get our other chassis ready, and then we can look at the wheels we want to use for the final robot.  From the performance of the mecanum wheels today, we can see how useful they can be in our design.  If they end up too slow, then we may have to go with the normal wheels.  We also experimented with the ball flicker.  It’s broken two pieces of lexan so it seems unreliable.
Ted Blake (12)



September Reflection
Reflection
September is always the brainstorming and prototyping month. Typically we wouldn't have a robot by now, but we do and that’s great. I think the time we put in to outlining the process at the start has really paid off and we have a clear path for the future. Instead of one giant brainstorm outright, I think the prototyping break in between helped us really get our ideas more grounded and help us develop a set of practical solutions we can actually pursue. I think having the capabilities for two chassis’s at once is definitely going to accelerate our building and testing process, and allow us to have incredibly robust systems. I am just over the moon about the quality of our new members this year, they really assimilated well into our prototyping groups and I think that they all have handle on what it means to be on this team. I am also really impressed with the dedication and skill of our new leaders, even the younger ones are stepping up and becoming experts within the club despite their age. I admit I was a bit nervous about the youthfulness of our leadership and the lack of members in 11th grade in general this year, but the freshmen and sophomores are simply fantastic and I’m excited to guide them further. I was also nervous about the lack of hardware people due to the graduating class being most of our hardware last year, but again our new members are stepping up and learning a lot from Jonathan and I. Furthermore, Max is just blowing me away with the amount of organization our code has, and how easy it is to get the newer members involved in it, I knew he would do a good job but I am thoroughly surprised by his capabilities. Of course it’s not all unicorns and rainbows. Our team has had the largest problem with distracting use of phones I’ve seen yet and sometimes I feel like keeping the group’s attention can be hard since we’re all best buddies. These are issues I hope to minimize with a more personal leadership strategy in the future, less moderating and more floating around. I think this group of people will respond well knowing that I’m not only always watching, but always excited to see what they can do. One thing I’m worried about is going to be keeping everyone busy once the prototype groups kinda stop and design becomes more iterative. Again, I think two chassis’s will help alleviate this, but I need to look into display cabinet projects, or somehow making an ACG bot with the little materials we have left over from two whole robots. Overall our ideas seem plausible, our members seem capable, our leadership seems strong, I cannot think of a single major aspect of our team so far that is anything less than solid.

Jack Bond (12)


Section 6.2 - October Documentation

10/4 6:00-8:00 Meeting 8
Attendance
Shaashwat, Alex, Max M, Jacob B, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Davis, Jacob G, Angelo Z, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach

Meeting Plan
Each group reports prototype findings, list of pros and cons
Use findings to come up with several robot designs

Task
Details
Name
Prototype Presentations and Brainstorming
Today each prototype group presented the mechanism they worked on. As a group, we brainstormed a list of pros and cons for each mechanism. Here is what we came up with:
All Members
Cascade Collection Mechanism pros and cons

All Members










Reflection
Today the meeting went pretty smoothly. The prototype presentations were a little lengthy but were definitely helpful. All the groups were able to come up with substantial pros and cons, and they totally educated out later discussion. As for the design workshop we were focused and effective. We discussed several possibilities for layout and eventually decided on a solid design that I’m excited to pursue. We also had some more radical designs suggested that have considerable merit. Overall I was pleased with the focus of the group and I informed everyone of the plan for the immediate future. The electronics should be coming back soon and I think we’re ready to proceed, I’m excited to see our ideas come to fruition
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

10/6/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 9 
Attendance
Ted, Jack, Brendan, Jacob, Rick, Max, Will, Aman, Tyler, Eli, Ethan, David, Max

Meeting Plan
Designate people to task from Tuesday
Collector
Flicker
Button
Cap Ball
ACG
Start Work on said projects

Task
Details
Name
Button clicker checking & Basic Programming
Was wondering about whether the button clicker would work correctly, so adding 2 new members, brainstormed about alternate button pushers and explained more about how the button pushing part works. Also, learned some program(Misha X) by watching other people doing program related stuff and learning from the mentors.
David Kim (11), Misha Panov (10), & Brendan Rock (11)  
Sweeper
Today I worked on building a sweeper resembling the cascade effect sweeper. Myself, Brendan, Angelo, Misha and David started by examining how the current sweeper works. We determined that we might not need to replicate the gearing system so we just built a bare bones model. It went pretty smoothly and after the process we went to test it. Using cardboard guides we made a makeshift tube for the mechanism and lo and behold it was working pretty well. I think a more refined version can definitely accommodate our needs. It is definitely a bit big though.


Jack Bond (12)
Lexane flicker
I rebuilt the lexane flicker to minimize set screw use and axle wear, and mounted an intake buffer/trough. I also added a plate 45 degrees ahead of the lexane(on the same axle) to control particle intake. Both of these work independently, and are about ready for testing as a system. Space may be an issue, so the motor may need to be remounted with a chain to shorten the flicker. The flicker also needs some testing and/or an output tube to get a reliable output angle. The flicker is currently off center to leave more space for the cap ball system.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
For hardware, the progress was good. We got a working spinner by the day’s end, basing our design off of the cascade bot. Jonathan’s work on the flicker is also looking promising. CADing for the cam for that device is also almost done, and should be printed by next week. Overall outlook bright for being able to score soon. On the software end, Davis began training freshmen who wanted to learn some code, and Max lead the rest of the software team. They have begun work on using camera software for autonomous. We should have the controllers back from the update by next week so we can test hardware and autonomous at the same time, which is very exciting for me because that was an issue last year. We are on schedule to have all our parts built by the end of next week.
Ted Blake (12)

******************************************************************************************************************************************

10/11/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 10
Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth

Meeting Plan
Continue to work on projects from last week

Task
Details
Name
Lexane Durability
 The current design uses 2 layers of lexane and seems to hold up well, but will break if run backwards. Future designs should rotate the screw positions 45 degrees so that stress is evenly distributed between two bolts, improving lexane life. Rounding and/or padding the inside C edge where the force is concentrated should also lengthen flicker life.
Jack Bond (12) & Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Computer Vision
 I designated the software team to explore a 3-pronged approach to computer vision. Ideally, from the choices of OpenCV, raw data, and vuforia, we'll be able to develop an effective computer vision solution. 
Max Krieger (11)
Cardinal (IMU) Neuron
I made this component move way faster when you invoke turn() method, so we can turn very quickly in both autonomous and teleop.
Max Krieger (11)
Pixymon CV
 I got pixymon functioning on a windows 10 computer and got the camera to detect the different colors on the beacon. Started work on minimizing background noise, but more work is needed. Eventually we're gonna want to download pixymon on one of the linux computers, but most things save on the camera so it's not a massive priority.
Jacob Gorenburg
(11)
Raw Image Data
 I tried using the raw image data, but the camera was deprecated. We will now use vuforia.

Shaashwat Sharma
(10)

Reflection
People seem really involved in their work groups. Nobody seemed lazy or out of a job and this approach really seems to be. The groups themselves are moving at different paces. The flicker group already seems to have a small-scale prototype working, the button presser group is still debating materials. Software seems to be making very good progress on the grunt work of figuring out how the camera even works. Overall it’s that time of year, thing’s aren’t quite together yet but we’re poised for success.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

10/13/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 11
Attendance
Tyler, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, Max K, Alex, Sean, Jack, Jonathan

Meeting Plan
Software: Install opencv, program flicker
Hardware: Rewire the beacons, Continue work in mechanism groups

Task
Details
Name
OpenCV installation
I followed the installation instructions that I found online and merged the openCV code with our project in the openCV branch on Fractal

Tyler Osborne (10)
Flicker and Spinner programming
 Me and Will Patsios got the flicker and spinner working with our controllers. We had to debounce the gamepad input so it wouldn't over toggle.

Max Krieger (11)
Fixing Beacons
Today I took Alex, Sean, Max to rewire/fix the beacons. We started by outlining what it was we were doing, adding in a switch to make turning the beacons on and off easier. Then I taught them how to solder, and we got to work on one beacon, the first job was a little bit bad, but it works and we're ready to tackle the other three, this job should get done next week.
Jack Bond (12)




Reflection
I had a blast today! I got to teach a bunch of freshmen how to solder and they learned it pretty well. We were working on making the beacons more usable and it is a really good project to teach wiring concepts. Some robots, at least Clyde, are also consistently moving now, I’ve been missing that motor sound and I’m glad it’s back to being constant. I just can’t reiterate how impressed I am with the freshmen’s aptitude for actually doing jobs this year, they’re involved with almost everything. Overall everyone seems to be happily working away, I think the early forced group work with prototypes and whatnot really paid off.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

10/18/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 12
Attendance
Eli, Max M, Tyler, Jonathan, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, Mark, Max K, Zach

Meeting Plan
Make the second robot work
Mount/test electronics
Replicate + attach current mechanisms
OpenCV completion
Functional Button Presser

Task
Details
Name
CMU Camera
Updates concerning CMU camera:
- A computer needs to have the software, and the software itself can be buggy.
- The system is very different from the onboard option we're exploring with different parameters to learn
- The sensor itself doesn't seem to be as dynamic as a phone camera. I fear for dark gyms and unnecessary reconfigurations/calibrations which can't be defined with our common codebase
- We are still yet to come up with a successful implementation of any I2C device
Max Krieger
(11) &  Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Core Electronics
The electronics work, but still need a fiberboard mounting plate, which should be made sometime Thursday.

Jack Bond (12)
Aim of Ball Launcher
 Aim is unreliable so an output tube is needed; we'll have to see how much this improves it. Mr. Earl suggested that more precise particle positioning in the flicker would also help.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Feed Trough
We need a deflector to get particles from the spinner intake into the trough.
Misha Panov (10)
Fixing Beacon
Today I extended the wires for the beacon and attached a toggle switch. I completed two beacons and have two more for Thursday
Max Frail (9)

Reflection
Today was pretty nice. Software is doing great, although they’re a little behind, with computer vision, it’s a hard task. The freshmen are taking well to any tasks I can give them, namely max and rewiring the beacons, the flicker is actually coming into a decent design, it can shoot more than one particle, it still has accuracy problems though. Overall I felt a good vibe in the room, not really a nervous buzz, or an overly energetic buzz, just blissful busyness. It was pretty relaxed.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

10/20/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 13
Attendance
David, Shaashwat, Max M, Tyler, Jonathan, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Misha, Davis K.

Meeting Plan
The goal for this meeting was to revamp the electronics on the first chassis and build improved mechanisms for the second chassis, as well as finishing incorporating opencv software-side.

Task
Details
Name
Button Pusher
Using a different shape of button pusher (square but changed to
triangle) tested out on robot to see if button would push. The trial was executed on the test robot and passed, however, there was a chance of breaking the pusher's edge. The servo block was used and the testing is pending. 
David Kim (11) & Misha Panov (10)
OpenCV
I got the LASArobotics app to work on the driver station. Now we just need to program it and implement the library with our code. 
Shaashwat Sharma (10)
Fixing the beacons
Today I attached the toggle buttons for the last two beacons and removed the bucket from the last one. 
Max Frail (9)
PID (abstract)
I started work on the PID class, and worked on making it work with angles. Some modular arithmetic challenges. 
Max Krieger (11)
Wholesome Pitching Machine
Honestly and unfortunately, I did nothing productive. Worked on a chassis but failed horribly, had to disassemble.
Davis Keene (10)

Reflection
We were a little behind on the goals today. An opencv Pegram was finished, and the first chassis' electronics were modernized. But the first chassis hasn't been mapped yet and isn't driving. Neither the spinner nor the flicker were completed, but both are near-finished. Overall I'm a little disappointed but still pleased with progress, we should definitely have two working chassis next Tuesday. An important thing to finish is the calendar so we can finalize all these deadlines and be able to know when we'll need extra time like we did today.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

10/25/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 14
Attendance
David, Max M, Tyler, Jonathan, Jack, Jacob C, Ted, Parth, Misha,

Meeting Plan
The main hardware goal is to mount the flicker on to the main chassis and make adjustments as needed. The software goal is to program the button pusher and test it out. As well as working on a schedule for the next meetings up until the scrimmage at least.
7:30 = Parent Night, so the meeting will be a bit short.

Task
Details
Name
Building a Second Module
I built and mounted a second module. It should be tested next meeting. 
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Button Pusher
We got the button pusher working. Now, we have to fix the servo angles. 
Max Krieger (11)
Teaching New Members, and Helping them
Today I taught some people how to map hardware to software. We fixed the hardware mappings for the Clyde chassis, then plugged in the button pusher servo and wrote an organ/controller for it. 
Max Krieger (11)
Proto -> Cam Lexan Flicker
Today I mainly focused on making the cam out of the laser cut parts from yesterday. However once I finished the filing for that I did a couple of tests with the cam and the flicker. First of all, the axle should as low as possible and as close to the end of the flicker as possible. Next the flicker will have to be at an angle if we want to score with it. The flicker itself needs to be a little more powerful with this design, it had the raw height to barely make it in, but we need a little more if we want to do it from a distance. The flicker itself was very very consistent and easy to load. I am very satisfied. 




Jack Bond (12)

Reflection
Progress was kind of slow, I hoped to have the flicker mounted by the end of the day, but the combination of issues with its power and parent night happening prevented that. Neither the spinner nor the flicker were completed, but both are near-finished. However both chassis are drivable and the computer vision code works. Overall I foresee huge progress over the next couple of meetings. We should definitely have two working chassis next Tuesday. An important thing to finish is the calendar so we can finalize all these deadlines and be able to know when we'll need extra time like we did today. 
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

10/27/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 15
Attendance
Max M, Tyler, Jonathan, Jack, Jacob C, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Eli, Ryan K, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Davis K.

Meeting Plan
Goals in order of priority:
1) Have two driving robots
2) Have two robots with mechanisms
3) Computer vision

Task
Details
Name
Angle Turning
Me and Jacob G. continued working on the PID angle turning implementation. We improved a way of calculating an error value relative to the angle. I also prepared a testing program for when the IMU gets mounted.

Max Krieger (11) & Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Cam Lexan Flicker
Added another layer of lexan, moved cam back, did more field tests. Overall we can't seem to get this design to be powerful enough to reach the high goal... Only going to put one more day into designing it, If we can't get it by Friday we should go with the other design. 


Jack Bond (12)
Wholesome Pitching Machine
We made a lot of progress with the particle pitching machine. We were able to create the apparatus and finally mount the cylinder to it. The spacing of the two motors are further apart than we would like, but next meeting they will be fixed.

Davis Keene (10)
Proto Lexan Flicker
I removed the flicker and worked with Sonja to improve reliability. The unreliability seems to result from the bend in the flicker prior to the flick knocking the particle into the air, so the flick hits the particle in midair, resulting in very variable trajectories. When the flicker is started against the bar but not bent, it isn't moving/bending fast enough to bump the particle, so the flick hits a stationary particle and works quite reliably. An output tube design worked terribly because it did nothing about the initial irregularity and slowed the particle too much or failed to catch it at all. If we hold the particle slightly above the flicker, the bend shouldn't hit them, letting us run the flicker at full speed reliably.






Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Electronics Rack
I moved the IMU to the other side of the chassis so the wire on it could reach the core device interface.
Sonja Francis (12)

Reflection
Overall progress has slowed, communication has begun to break apart, I plan on addressing it on Tuesday, along with documentation. After we finish with the flickers, hopefully tomorrow or early Tuesday, we need to focus on getting a more robust interface between it and the spinner.
Jack Bond



October Reflection
Reflection
October was a little rough. It started out smooth enough. We wrapped up the design phase and got into serious robot design, the first couple of meeting in the month were relaxed and productive, we were able to formulate a rough plan for the robot, however, as the prototyping wrapped up things began to fall into disarray. As I predicted last month, the lack of concrete work is a serious limit to the productivity of the club, but more on that later. As of now we’re looking like we’re going with a spinning feed directly into one of our flicker designs for now. However, we are behind in our schedule. I had originally wanted to have two moving and testing robots by the end of this month, but only Clyde is really moving. The flicker is still a little unreliable, the spinning feed neets a little attunement, autonomous has not made that much progress on image recognition, but the IMU is in a serious testing phase now. I mean we’re moving along, but I definitely need to start creating and enforcing the calendar, in fact I’m a little excited for it. As I mentioned earlier I’ve been having trouble coordinating people. There are just too many team members and not enough jobs on the main robot, I’ve been trying to make the pitching machine group into a sort of ACGish thing, but that’s being held up on lack of parts. I really need the poster and the video to become real so that I can send people there that don’t have jobs and not have to force them to crimp powerpoles or something menial like that. Another possibility would be to use the Bonnie chassis to give people jobs, but the wholesome pitching machine kind of has dibs. These are the main things to address for next month. 1) Improved day to day planning, get that calendar up. 2) more jobs for the jobless, get poster, video, second robot, and pitching machine parts to address this. My hype from last month has dissipated a little bit but I fully believe that If I forcefully tackle those two items then the team will sort itself out. I have utmost faith in the qualities I noticed out of all the members from last month. 
Jack Bond (12)


Section 6.3 - November Documentation

11/1/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 16
Attendance
Jacob B, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Max K, Eli, David

Meeting Plan
Goal: finish particle scoring for the scrimmage

Task
Details
Name
Cobra
Today, we were able to find the wheels and gearboxes for the mechanism online (in google doc). We also found ways to implement the conveyer belt system with the surgical tubing, and put Zach + Max (max) on that job. Misha is manually gearing the wheels to spin faster while we wait on ordering the 4:1 gearboxes.
Brendan Rock (11)
Button Pusher
Tested the pusher, was not reliable and only triggered beacon when I braced the back of the beacon.
Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Button Pusher
Nov 1. Decided that current button pusher is too inefficient to use(doesn't push enough)
Decided to re brainstorm ideas for fixed button pusher
Decided a few ideas for alt button pusher
But for now to try to keep original idea as much as possible and fix biggest problems, decided to add more layer on so  part with screws does not hit beaker(add a trapazoid shape layer above)
Will use lazer cutter to do so next time.
Depending on results will continue to use original idea with minor edits but if still too inefficient after change will use alt button pusher instead.
David Kim (11)
Robust Flicker
 The torque required for flicking ripped the threading out of two motor-axle adapters. While these weren't brand new, the torque on them is clearly too high for them to work reliably. The motor side of the adapter was the one that broke due to the shallower bore and shorter set screw. As this makes the single-axle design impractical, we returned to the 1:2 gear ratio which we had already developed. The gear is bolted directly to the bracket holding the lexane, and the axle is fixed so that it serves as a structural component. The design avoids the set screw problems that plagued the adapter, as the only set screw is the one on the motor axle. Motor hubs have longer bores than adapters, giving the set screws much more torque, and the set screw here deals with only half the torque due to the gearing, making the system far more robust. The gearing should also reduce load on the motor without problematic consequences for flicker speed. The new design has a particle holder set up. and works pretty well. We may still want to replace the lexane. For consistency purposes, we should cut a bunch of identical spare flickers from a single piece of lexane. The particle holder should still be tuned for optimal particle placement.


Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Unfortunately we didn't get to finishing particle scoring, but we're very close and I scheduled a meeting for Wednesday to finish. We had planned to address the team about some issues regarding communication, but since there were less people than normal that is pushed to Thursday. Although we're a little behind schedule I think Wednesday will be great to get us back on time and we'll be golden for the scrimmage on November 18.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

11/3/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 17

Attendance
Max F, Ted, Max K, Jacob B, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob G,

Meeting Plan
Goal: finish particle scoring for the scrimmage

Task
Details
Name
Angle Turning
We fixed the null pointer, the neuron wasn't being initialized/constructed properly. Jacob got it to test and return values, but we are yet to turn the robot to see how it responds. 
Max Krieger (11) & Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Light Sensor Soldering
Today Mr. Earl taught me how to solder and we made a pair of light sensors with LED’s using breadboards. Next meeting I will create a tissue for them, which will be extremely similar to the Ultrasonic sensor tissue because both use analog input.
Shaashwat Sharma (10)
Robust Flicker
We added the third piece of lexane from the cam flicker to this flicker, which is now strong enough to reach the goal. We still haven't gotten to the bottom of why it's weaker than the other flicker, something which we should do. Once mounted on the robot, the flicker scored successfully in the center vortex.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
I am very pleased with the robot's progress so far. From this point onward we are in field testing in preparation for the Lexington scrimmage. The collection works for one particle, the flicker works to score, and we can drive. Attendance has been pretty low recently which is disappointing.
Goals going forward are to continue to practice driving, so drivers can know where they need to be too score, and to develop some kind of autonomous we can use in the scrimmage. The button pusher also needs more testing.
Long term goals include building a better connection system that can buffer up to 5 particles, so we aren't constrained by that, and making a cap ball system. Additionally a good autonomous seems crucial to this game so much of the future meetings should be dedicated to that.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

11/8/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 18

Attendance
Max F, David, Ted, Max K, Jacob B, Shaashwat, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob G,

Meeting Plan
The goals of this meeting are to 1) Fix the button pusher 2) fix the drifty driving 3) code a quick and dirty autonomous 4) develop the surgical tubing lift 5) start work on the poster

Task
Details
Name
Surgical Tubing Lift
I added the surgical tubing, which is currently spliced with duct tape and zip ties. Mr. Earl suggested that gluing a smaller tube between the larger ones would be a better way to splice them. 

Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Angle Turning
Jacob effectively got pid turning working quite well. It misses a few degrees but we're happy with it for now, unless we can figure out an integral. 
Max Krieger (11) & Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Button Pusher
Today David and I added a small block behind the button pusher so that the servo wouldn't flex and cause the whole thing to bend. Now the button pusher can remain square with the rest of the robot and it works. We also designed and cut a better block that I am going to stop by tomorrow to mount. This project is pretty much done as of now. 
David Kim (11) & Jack Bond (12)
Light Sensor
I wrote a simple Light Sensor tissue and am hoping to make a basic PID line following program using the same constants from Jacob’s angle turning PID method.
Shaashwat Sharma (10)

Reflection
All of the goals were met except fixing the drifty driving which is great news. I don't know whether it’s because the meetings are better planned, or we just have less people, but there are way less problems with idle people recently. Everybody had a thing to do, I think a big contributor to this was more jobs on the non-robot side like the poster and display case projects. But the meeting felt very streamlined today, which is fantastic. I'm very proud of our progress so far and I think we'll well on track for the upcoming scrimmage. 
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

11/10/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 19

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Tyler, Jonathan, Jack, Jacob C, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Eli, Ryan K, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Davis, David, Sonja

Meeting Plan
The goals of this meeting are to test test test. We also want to finish opencv and perfect angle turning on the software side. We also need to put together a team to start working on the team poster.

Task
Details
Name
Team Poster
Worked on a to-do list as well as recorded section dimensions today.


Sonja Francis (12)
Angle Turning + Button Pusher
The PID turning keeps getting better and better. Jacob Gorenburg is adding an integral so we can turn more accurately than right now, which remains at an error margin of around 3 degrees.

Also, the button pusher was working all along; the servo was plugged in backwards. It functions perfectly now. 

 
Max Krieger (11) & Jacob Gorenburg (11)
TCamera
Today I fixed some opencv issues I explained earlier by adding and renaming some missing jar files. Max is now going to continue implementing the Beacon detection. I have moved on to working on the light sensor. There was a short circuit in the wiring, which was fixed by Mr. Earl. I completed a test program for the light sensor, and continue tomorrow
Shaashwat Sharma (10)
Drift Correction

Old Beacon Mounting
We seemed to have corrected a lot of the drift in the sideways driving. Driving it myself seemed a lot smoother, but we definitely need a practice with the flicker.

I also mounted the old beacons to the field, finally, that was a pain but they're solid enough to use. 
Jack Bond (12)

Reflection
We tested a bunch and that was good, we corrected a lot of the driving issues, implemented the button pusher code, worked on some flicker macros, it all seems to be pretty nice. We were temporarily set back by a broken motor but all's well that ends well. The surgical tubing lift also saw considerable progress and we have some prototypes for quick & dirty cap ball points. Overall hardware seems ahead of schedule and software is prepared for the scrimmage. Of course there's work to be done but I am very pleased with our results this far.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

11/15/16 2:30-8:00 Meeting 20

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Tyler, Jonathan, Jack, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Mark, Max K, Zach, Davis, David, Sonja, Will

Meeting Plan
Goals: Perfect Surgical Tubing Lift, have a barebones autonomous ready, finish spinner, get CV Beacon Pushing and Light Sensors up and running

Task
Details
Name
High Goal Scoring
Today Will and I worked on a hard-coded autonomous to score 1-2 particles in the high goal, we believe this is a thing we can get working for the scrimmage and is worth 30 points so it's totally worth doing. We spent some time aligning the robot for two positions, red and blue, where it can score without driving based on the initial position of the center vortex. There are pictures on the driver station phone of these alignments to aid in aligning it. Will then worked on the basis of a code to have it flick once then spin the other particle into the flicker, then flick again. We are having problems with encoders but the task seems easy enough. We think this will interface well with the cap ball pushing. 
Jack Bond (12) & Will Patsios (12)
Chassis/Maintenance

Surgical Tubing Lift
I added a vertical channel and 2 horizontal bars to stabilize the flicker channel. I also replaced a servo controller with the sensor board, leaving a pair of extra wires in place. The pdm is still a little too far left, so the phone wire is a bit exposed, but it can't easily go right without hitting the flicker. We still need front and rear wire guards. I glued the pdm and spinner connectors.

I tightened the bolts connecting the gearbox to the motor body after they came loose, and strengthened the motor mount so the nylon spacers don't let it twist as much. Replacing the nylon entirely is probably a better long term solution. 
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Tcamera, Tlight sensor, BeaconCheck, PressBeacon
The light sensor works. Now we have to adjust the hardware part to get optimal values. 
The camera/computer vision works!!!! Now, we have to improve the accuracy. 
We can check the status of the beacon and adjust the servo accordingly. It seems the servo moves in the opposite direction right now, though. 
Pressing the beacon sometimes works. Goes too fast presently, and doesn't really stop because we can’t identify when both lights are blue/red.
Max Krieger (11)
PID (Abstract)

Angle Turning
Using PID, the robot can now turn exactly 90 degrees in about 2 seconds 
We got PID abstract to return a "base case" power when the algorithm believes it has succeeded.
Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Proto-Spinner
I've been steadily adjusting the sheet metal over the last couple of meetings, it is now in a completely working state. The thing has been solidly re-taped to the chassis on the top so it won't fall off. I cut down the top of the back plate so particles no longer get caught on that. I added a new piece of metal on the top right of the chute so that particles won't fall out that way. I adjusted the top guide so that it is within 18" and consistently guides particles to the flicker. This now works 100%. 
Jack Bond (12)
Phone Mount

Cap Ball Holder

Scouting Sheet
Made a new phone mount for the scrimmage.  It used tetrix and velcro, and is not a permanent solution.  However, the design allowed the phone's camera to be looking at the correct location. 
I attached the particle scooper to the robot.  However, it is a bit too short, something I think happened because it was mounted higher than I expected it be.  We want it on another side, so I can make changes then.  Hopefully this will be an easy way to gain 10 points, and even if going for beacons is better then it's still nice to have the option.
I made a prototype for the scouting sheet.  The scrimmage should be a good checkup for how we are doing in certain areas compared to other teams, so we can take a hard look on what to focus.  Tomorrow, I'll fix it up and send a copy to the rookie team that wanted a look at how we did scouting.  This year, I making a few changes.  First, there's a key to filling out the sheet, to prevent confusion in the scouters.  Next, I plan to use Lexington's strategy of creating a folder for each team.

Ted Blake (12)

Reflection
We marathoned today, 2:30 - 8. We got a lot done. The surgical tubing lift got significant improvements, there is now a servo-controlled feed and means of containing the particles, we can effectively carry around 5 particles with Bonnie now, it is looking very promising, there are only a little more kinks to be worked out, we're like weeks ahead of schedule with that. Clyde got a lot of field test time, we have a 30-point autonomous to score two particles in the center goal and it can probably be adjusted to hit the cap ball off of the center plate in time for the scrimmage but if not its chill. The cap ball plate for end game is being troublesome but it just needs to be mounted on the other side of the robot. Computer vision is making headway, so a complete autonomous is looking feasible for the Needham scrimmage. Once more people arrived at 6 the meeting became a little more logistics-heavy. I briefed the team on the plan for the scrimmage, got a team working on the video, finally ironed out some registration stuff, Ted started scouting sheets. Some of the side projects made great progress too. The pitching machine got some testing time, the light sensors seem to be in the process of implementation which is fantastic. Overall we have moved forward on all fronts except the poster today. Feelin' pumped.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

11/17/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 21

Attendance
Shaashwat, Jonathan, Jack, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Mark, Max K, Zach, Davis, David, Sonja, Will, Max M

Meeting Plan
Goal: Build better switches, start brainstorming for the video, work on Autonomous for the scrimmage

Task
Details
Name
Video
Started the brainstorming of video. Also watched some examples of other school videos to get basic idea of what to do. Will need to get more info about restrictions on video making and get more film for video

David Kim (11)
Switches
Max Mazzarase, Jonathan and myself built the switches today. It was pretty simple and now they're attached.
Jonathan Borowsky (12) & Jack Bond (12)
Line Detection

PID

Angle Turning
Robot can detect the line about 1/10 times. We need to adjust the physical height of the light sensors so they can detect more consistently. 
We can turn a specific number of degrees thanks to PID. 
We can now turn/drive straight to the beacon, and then end the task when the white line is seen (autonomous). 
Max Krieger (11) & Jacob Gorenburg (11)
General Maintenance
I glued all but 3 pdms (Clyde's and both the HackHers robots still need gluing) and 3 batteries which were in use (1 is a competition battery, 1 is on Clyde, and one is on the HackHers main robot).
I still need to glue an inverter cable and mark it with a warning about frying pdms. I think I've gotten all our andymark motors except maybe Clyde's spinner. 
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Today's meeting was kinda sporadic. Lots of little things got done in preparation for the scrimmage. We solidified the robot, attached another sensor, incorporated the switches, created team numbers and all the other doodads needed to pass inspection. We also tested autonomous a bunch, we can reliably score two particles in the center goal! We started working on code to then drive over to the button, but that's not done yet. Overall I see us competing well at the scrimmage and learning a lot about how these matches are actually going to feel. I do think we definitely need to dedicate next Tuesday to debriefing the scrimmage with the whole team and formulating the plan until the qualifiers. I need to meet with the other leaders to plan that out. 
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

11/22/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 22

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth

Meeting Plan
Debrief the Scrimmage

Task
Details
Name
Debriefing Scrimmage Group Meeting
Today we all met together and talked about problems we ran into during the scrimmage and how to learn from them/prevent them. We also brainstormed solutions to problems such as unreliability of the particle shooter mechanism.
All members

Reflection
Today was a very structured meeting, we had several points to discuss about team dynamics and the plans for the structure of the next couple of weeks.

We started by addressing the problems we've been having with documentation, we made sure that everyone is on this trello page and hammered home the point that every group, if not every member, should be contributing at least one thing, anything, to this log. We followed that up by talking about the general lack of productivity of some of our members, without singling anyone out we talked about how there are always jobs to do and ways myself and the other leaders can better communicate those possibilities, but also how we will not tolerate that anymore.

That was the first half-hour. The rest of the time was spent discussing the scrimmage and how we should move forward. We discussed several solutions to our problems, detailed on those cards, and the plan about how we can accomplish those in the time frame. In short the idea is to keep autonomous testing on Clyde while all of the hardware issues are fixed on Bonnie, then to move everything over to Bonnie for the competitions, this will allow us to double the development we can do by splitting up the tasks among the robots.

The last half-hour was about putting the goals we have onto the calendar, then we noticed just how little time we have until the next scrimmage. We have a lot to cram in: perfect high goal scoring, perfect autonomous, a cap ball lift, etc. There's a lot to do and all the individual tasks seem very doable but doing them all at the same time is gonna be a challenge. I'm nervous but excited for the next two weeks. The video is also due soon but David seems to be on top of that. 
Jack Bond (12)

******************************************************************************************************************************************

11/29/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 23

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Zach, Parth

Meeting Plan
The goals are to perfect the surgical tubing lift, get light sensor code working, eliminate the flipping problem, and make a better button pusher.

Task
Details
Name
Beacon Pressing
Beacon pressing works near-perfectly!! Now, all we need is hardware augmentations and to ensure the confidence interval doesn't mess up premature success detection. 
Max Krieger (11)
Flicker Updates
Today Jonathan and I worked on updating the flicker for the next iteration. We adapted the design to be more like Clyde's now that we found the missing part, and we changed the design slightly to a reversed version of what we currently have, with the gears making the flicker go faster than the motor as opposed to the opposite. Upon testing this update we found that the flicker was easily powerful enough to launch particles into the high goal with only a single piece of lexan. However it was quite hard to control and will definitely need macros on software-side to make sure we can effectively use it. I predict it will work fantastically if we decide on the strategy of always shooting while we're close to the goal in the xz plane, I'm not as confident in the new design as the robot gets farther away. I suggest using a limit switch or a touch sensor rather than encoders to get the macros for the new flicker, I think that since it's now geared up we may need to be too precise for these encoders and we'll want something that can detect the actual flicker. Also there are slow motion videos. Today I also played with clyde's flicker a little bit and determined that the flickers in general should definitely be supported on both sides rather than just the one. I am in favor of putting another channel on Bonnie's left side along with the other two.




Jack Bond (12)
Chassis
Today Misha, Jacob C, and myself changed the chassis around a bunch, We moved the two back posts forward by one half-unit so that we could increase stability by mounting them by four screws. We also added another channel between the flicker's mounting channel and the surgical tubing lift's channel so that we could add stability to both units. Later in the meeting Jonathan and I removed the upwards channel between the two back channels and rotated it to span the gap between the back channels, this was to add stability and provide room for the button pusher and phone on the back, now that we decided that the lift's forklift should be on the open side of the robot.

Misha Panov (10),  Jacob Cullison (11) & Jack Bond (12)
Surgical Tubing Lift
I wrote the teleop code for the Surgical Tubing Lift. It's working and after a little finagling the particle buffer servo works as well, this is functional. 
Will Patsios (12)
Angle Turning
Working on automatic tuner for PID, got some parts working, but the integral needs some fixing 

Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Button Pusher, Team Poster, Video
I laser cut out a new button pusher based on the video we saw of the other team. The larger area is useful, but more useful is the thin layer of Styrofoam that I put on top. The stuff has enough give to get in the button without being repelled by the sides of the button, but is firm enough to push it. Brendan mounted it, and Jacob reports excellent results. Once we decide on a spot, we will use a similar model on Bonnie.
We got started on making info for the poster, as well as finalizing what materials we need.  I took some pictures of the robot for the hardware section, and Brendan got started on write-ups.  We need blue felt, and poster board, as well as some more velcro.  In addition, we took pictures of everyone who was there as well as the mentors. 
Video progress is underway, with people compiling some nice pictures we have taken to show our robot under construction and our team's journey.  In addition, we have marked what leaders are talking about what in the video, to follow the guidelines set up in the scrimmage information.  Tomorrow we should shoot the interviews. 
Ted Blake (12)

Reflection
Today was hugely productive! We accomplished everything on the docket for the day, with the exception of light sensor code, and so much more! Although it was a marathon meeting, only I was there for the entire duration, however, I was never alone and plenty of people were streaming in and out. Here's a quick summation of what happened: Bonnie teleop was coded; Bonnie's flicker was refined, mounted, and tested; The phone camera was tested and was able to discern red and blue and alter the button presser, so autonomous components all work and just need to be put together; Bonnie's entire chassis was made more sturdy; The surgical tubing lift was modified to minimize the problem of derailment; We seriously planned the spacing of the cap ball lift and forklift; The video is now planned out until completion and is well on track to completion; The poster is on the same page; Bonnie's spinner was redesigned to eliminate our flipping problem; A new button pusher was built and it works so much better. By any standard we were hugely productive, We knocked off tasks I had originally planned to do the day before the scrimmage, we're gonna have so much testing time! I'm pumped.
Jack Bond
******************************************************************************************************************************************
November Reflection
Reflection
I think this has been the most productive month I’ve ever been a part of during my robotics experience. As a recap, we hit every single major goal on our calendar either on or before it’s deadline. We have a reliable flicker, 5-particle buffering, effective collection, image recognition for autonomous, a working button pusher, functional IMU turning, and an acceptable autonomous program. We address every aspect of the challenge this year except for the cap ball, and it’s only November! We even got to playtest the robot during the Lexington scrimmage. I am hugely pleased with the November progress, but the highlight would have to be our scheduling. I’m going to reiterate: We hit every single important deadline we gave ourselves. I’m glad my leadership approach I highlighted in September’s reflection seems to be working well. However I still have concerns, attendance has gone down significantly since the early season, this is good in some aspects, it’s easier to manage, but obviously that means that people either aren’t as dedicated or are bored by the lack of work on the main robot that’s available for everybody. There are finally plans in the works for a display case project which I think will help. The video and the poster are drawing people, which is good, but there are consistently like one or two people a meeting that I just have to put on maintenance projects, which is absolutely not ideal, I’m trying to rotate the people around so that nobody has reason to complain about only doing busywork, but it’s gotta get done. The 11/22 debrief meeting was a success I think. That was the meeting where we really ironed out the rest of the calendar we’re running off of now, and I feel like we got a lot of good discussion. Integrating people not usually working on the main bot into a main bot discussion is a good way of keeping interest and I feel like that meeting was a welcome change of pace from the usual meetings. However, I did notice the phone problem again, it’s improving though. That meeting was positively draining for me, but I think it was well worth it for the amount of planning we were able to milk out of it. This is shown in the success of the following two meetings. I think those debrief meetings are hugely helpful, I plan to do another after the qualifier, but not the next scrimmage because we only have a week in between. Overall I’m super happy with progress, I’m super happy with our leaders’ capabilities to support me in the hard meetings, and I’m super happy with the team’s ability to follow through on what we say we’re gonna do.
Jack Bond




Section 6.4 - December Documentation

12/1/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 24

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth

Meeting Plan
The goals are light sensor (carryover), corner particles, autonomous button pressing, and code for Bonnie.

Task
Details
Name
Flicker

Cap Ball Lift
The flicker lost the power to reach the goal, so we added a second piece of lexane, which worked a few times before the motor lost the ability to flick entirely even with 1 piece of lexane. I'll take it apart next meeting and have a look, and try a different motor for the flicker. The issue seemed insensitive to battery charge. 
I built a hinge with a stop for the test fork. It seems to work but we're waiting on the lift for more realistic testing. Testing on a temporary tetrix slide is pending. 
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Mecanum Driving
Finally replaced the Mecanum wheel on this chassis. The orthogonal driving needs to be corrected software-side as it's not completely straight.
Jack Bond (12)
Video
Started to match video along with bgm and think about essential parts of the video. Might have to change bgm and am currently thinking what to do incase of extra time in the video.
David Kim (11)

Reflection
Today was less productive! The goals were light sensor (carryover), corner particles, autonomous button pressing, and code for Bonnie. We didn't address corner particles or the light sensor, still, but autonomous button pressing worked Tuesday and the Bonnie code functional. A lot of other jobs are going well though. We have a submittable video, it's not complete but it's a thing we can submit just in case, we plan to finish it tomorrow, or over the weekend at the latest. David and Parth are doing great. The poster also made good progress, the backdrop is good and most of the things going on it are completed, it still needs to be assembled though. Jacob continued to test PID control, he seems pretty happy with it, I think he and max are planning to grind out autonomous next week, or start tomorrow. Jonathan worked on a prototype cap ball forklift, we're still waiting on openbuild. We got the replacement mecanum wheels, so several people built those today and we were able to replace Bonnie's broken one. Bonnie's flicker is also having problems, more on that card. Bonnie's button pusher was also attached. However the big thing to note is that Bonnie is driving functionally and without any errors. This is great, the mechanisms all function together, and it seems she only needs refinement for what's already on. Overall things were pretty chill today. I kinda worked my way around everything and did less development than usual. We're totally in that test and refinement mode though. I'm hyped for the macros that Will is coding for Bonnie, she was pretty hard to drive but I think he can solve some problems with it. 
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
12/6/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 25

Attendance
Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Parth, Shaashwat

Meeting Plan
The Goals for this meeting are to build the cap ball lift, have flicking working, have all the poster bios in, and to be transferring autonomous code to Bonnie. 

Task
Details
Name
Cobra
Watched the changing in particle size and location of gears. Learned that have to consider not only location of gear but whether the particle can roll in(have enough space)
Wonders: why would the smaller wheels not work, is the problem the location restriction of smaller particles? Would problem be solved if used bigger particle(wouldn’t that go back to initial)? 
David Kim (11)
Cobra
Discovered that we are unable to use smaller wheels due to spacing

Brendan Rock (11)
Flicker
Today I spent time adding the touch sensor to work with the macros. It's mounted so that it's triggered down when there is a particle in the cradle and up when there isn't. This way repeatable flicker macros can be incorporated into driving without using the godforsaken andymark encoders. 

Jack Bond (12)
Surgical Tubing Lift
We retaped the belt joint to properly protect the kevlar thread. We then rebuilt the idler to keep the belt joint from catching the chassis channel, and generally make the belt less exposed. The belt has loosened a good bit but not enough to be problematic. We may want to grease the spinning tensioner pulley wheel but we'd have to keep the grease off the belt. A simple tensioner doesn't work, we need a spinning wheel of decent radius because the belt can't bend too tightly and can catch on things. We still need to tape the inside of the bottom pulley wheel to improve traction, which should reduce jam frequency. Jams happen when particles get one hole over the edge of the upper pulley and another on the opposite side. Taping the top pulley wheel edge for extra traction worsened this. I did fix particle perching between lift and flicker using tape. The basic problem is that particles don't come off the pulley at the top; they instead bounce around or occasionally jam. The current servo that holds particles at the top lacks the range to knock them out, so we'll need a second servo to do it automatically. 
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Control Parser
I fixed shift key bindings (!!!). Now we can have two sets of keys on one gamepad. 
Will Patsios (12)
Beacon Autonomous
BeaconAuto is 100% working on Clyde (!!!!). Now we have to adapt the angles/organs for bonnie. Shouldn't take more than a day.
Max Krieger (11)

Reflection
The Goals for this meeting were to build the cap ball lift, have flicking working, have all the poster bios in, and to be transferring autonomous code to Bonnie. Most of this was either already done or got done. Jonathan and I spent a lot of time fiddling with the particle lift, to little avail, we did manage to improve it but it still has minor issues. Meanwhile we scored particles and pushed a beacon completely autonomously on Clyde multiple times! This is fantastic news, because this means that all the components work and are ready to be transferred to Bonnie, which is what was being done the last portion of the meeting. Bios aren't done yet, Ted made a team announcement so that should be done by Friday at the latest. The cap ball lift has unfortunately not arrived yet, which has put us behind schedule. It should get it here tomorrow and I'm considering letting Jonathan build it at his house overnight because he offered to. The flicker has been working for a week now and we're working on taking it to the next level with pre-programmed macros and usage of sensors to make the whole thing easier to use, it's already pretty easy to aim.. Overall attendance was kind of low today, it's a busy time of year but everyone was being productive an we are in a really good spot for the scrimmage. We have an outreach event at Pollard Middle School tomorrow, and another one on Friday morning, the engineering notebook has been getting more attention recently and we submitted the video yesterday. The team seems to be really on top of things and I am just invigorated by the whole thing.

Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
12/8/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 26

Attendance
Jonathan, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Jack, Parth

Meeting Plan
The goals are to be ready for the Needham scrimmage

Task
Details
Name
Autonomous
Fully functional 75 point autonomous for blue!!! We must get both particles queued and flicked now, make sure we don't drift into the wall often, and test red.
Max Krieger (11)
Particle Lift/Buffer
So I played a bunch with the buffering again today. This is incredibly frustrating. So I started by experimenting with the L shaped plate I put on yesterday and it was just not able to push particles into the cradle. I also tried reverting to surgical tubing to see if that would help, it didn't. I reversed the belt to see if it would help, it didn't. However I was able to eliminate the jamming problem by bending the rightmost plate a little back. After that experimentation I talked with Mr. Earl and decided that once again the best idea is to turn the servo so it's vertical and have a piece that both blocks the particles from the top, and also hits them in from the side, a vertical L. I then was able to implement it and it worked to mild success. Currently the servo values need to be slightly changed, and the top beam needs to be raised to so that particles don't get stuck between the pusher arm and the edge of the cradle. If these two things work then the system will work and that's what I plan to do tomorrow. I am fed up with this problem taking so much time away from our testing, but we have a working concept and I'm glad to be almost done. 

Jack Bond (12)
Cap Ball Lift
I strung the lift, re-spaced the pulleys, and mounted mechanical stops. The lift works nicely. However, I should drill out holes for proper pulley mounting tomorrow. We will probably need a thin axle for adequate torque. 
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Today was discombobulated. The goals were simply to be ready for the Needham scrimmage and they we were not entirely completed. The cap ball lift will not be functional by the scrimmage. But it is built and just needs to be implemented on the robot. Autonomous is not quite done but it got 75 points today! It's waiting on one hardware issue and that would be the particle lift, which is having problems with the buffering process. More lamenting about that on its own card. Overall we're slightly behind on most things, but we still have next week almost completely open to catch up for the qualifier. I expect great things from the scrimmage and a lot of good knowledge about how to properly run this robot in matches. We're having driver practice tomorrow, I think we're finally gonna get to implement that. But as for the meeting today I felt very flustered and in too high demand, part of that was because Ted wasn't there, so I also had to check in with all of the other jobs that I usually just get to ask him about. There were significantly more people there than usual and it was tough getting them all working at the same time, these last couple of weeks have taken a lot out of me, hopefully I can take Sunday to recharge and prepare for the hurricane that will be next week. I'm still confident in our ability to compete at a high level this year.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
12/14/16 2:35-8:00 Meeting 27

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Zach, Parth

Meeting Plan
Goals: Finish particle scoring, and make autonomous more reliable (it’s 95 points!)

Task
Details
Name
Ball Collector
I totally replaced the zip ties and the duct tape because the spinner was having trouble getting the particles into the lift.  By replicating the design with new zip ties, the problem was immediately fixed and the robot loads particles up almost instantly, allowing us to collect much faster.  Also I did it in blue and gold, our team colors. 

Ted Blake (12)
Button Pusher

Ball Collector
Replaced the foam on the pusher. For a time it covered up the middle bit, but that ended up making it miss due to hitting the middle of the button. Also testing showed that in autonomous we didn't really need it, and the most reliable easy of triggering buttons during teleop is to drive slowly and turn into the button once engaged. Basically just being careful. 
Attempted to engineer a fix for the particle jamming problem. I tried putting a post jutting out across the middle of the space between the spinner and the lift to keep the particles from getting into the place where they jam. It didn't work. Determined that if the drivers are careful enough we shouldn't run into this issue. 
Jack Bond
Cap Ball Lift
I mounted the lift on Clyde and strengthened the fork connection. I also attached the cable to a motor shaft, allowing the driver to operate the lift. The lift ran nicely, taking around 5 seconds to raise. However, the fork is a bit too high to easily get the ball without using the wall, and the lift bends sideways a bit. The pulleys were fine until we accidentally ran the lift against the stop, which bent the pulley bolt downwards, and later broke the 300 lbs kevlar cable, which we replaced. I rebuilt the lift and replaced the 3mm openrail cylindrical spacers with 3.175 mm sections of tetrix flat beams. These are much sturdier, since the spacers sat on the edge of the v in the extrusion and got loose very easily. The last one still comes loose, probably because I messed up drilling it and so it's a bit askew. We should lightly file the spacers and extrusion (but not the anodized gantry plate) to roughen them for better connection. The stops at the top of the lift are bending. We plan to replace the current gantry plate stops with UHMWPE blocks, and replace the L bracket stops, which are bending, with bolts like the current gantry plate stops, which will rest on the UHMWPE blocks. This will strengthen the stop system and put it entirely between the extrusions. We also need to put the gantry stops higher to squeeze a bit more height out of the lift. The UHMWPE blocks will also serve to keep the lift segments appropriately spaced. We may use a screw/T nut combination to keep the extrusions aligned laterally, but this may cause excessive friction. I changed the fork design to strengthen the vertical segment, and need to improve the mechanical stop, which is starting to bend. The fork generally needs to be lightened, replacing the side bars with angled polycarbonate or aluminum tubing. The back bar is less important to replace since it exerts less torque. The alternative is a single bent pipe/beam with a semicircular back, which would be stronger and lighter but harder to make. Holding the ball in closer to the lift would significantly reduce torque and increase stability. 
Jonathan Borowsky

Reflection
Today was a bit of a grind. There were two main sections of the meeting. During the first half will and I worked on driver macros for particle scoring. We have a very efficient and robust macro for that now, and having experienced driving it, i am very impressed. The other section of these meeting was dedicated to making autonomous more reliable and robust. We started by making sure the initial driving bit would not hot the cap ball so that it worked no longer be a nuisance, then we worked a ton with the IMU angles and the beacon pushing algorithms to get those to be more reliable. That took a lot of time and trial and error and they're still not complete, however progress has been made and red and blue side are at the same place for that so it's only a matter of time. Other than those main goals a few other important things happened. We're pretty much done with the crimping project, and the pitching machine is in a testing state thanks to the new faster motors. However the most exciting thing that happened was when we got the cap ball lift on Clyde and were able to actually test that. It's a disappointment that we won't have it for Sunday, however it seems like it's going to work out with this particular robot design and I'm really excited. The meeting was less energetic than usual but that was because everybody was in the zone. I also believe we are almost done with the poster, at least the team info part of that, and the engineering notebook is coming along really really nicely. I'm really excited for qualifiers, I think we have a really strong team this year.

Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
12/15/16 2:35-4:00 Meeting 28

Attendance
Max K, Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Jonathan, Jack, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan W, David, Mark, Parth, Ryan Kerrigan

Meeting Plan
Preparing for the Competition

Task
Details
Name
Cap Ball Lift
I centered the stop on the fork so it touches both L brackets and provides symmetrical support, but the whole design needs to be redone to keep the ball closer to the lift. We should also move the lift 16 mm left to be reduce torque. Later, I rebuilt the fork to lift connector so the 3-flats spread out at the top and provide better support. I also rebuilt the winch-string attachment so the string is clamped between a 1-flat and an axle hub, keeping the string from catching on knots or screws and snapping down, as well as generally strengthening it.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Fix/Make Beacons
Broke and replaced two of the battery connectors today. Also one of the beacons will just never randomize. We may need a new one...
Jack Bond (12)
Poster
Today I helped cut out the pictures and blurbs of our teammates and mentors to put on the team poster.
David Kim (11)
Poster
Today Parth and I added the finishing touches onto the poster, and glued everything on.
Ryan Kerrigan (10), Parth (11)
ACG Robotic Arm Dispenser
I helped Max M. and Max F. plan out how they were going to make the robotic arm using an Arduino. I taught them how to program it and they came up with a pretty cool design plan.
Davis Keene (10)
ACG Robotic Arm Dispenser
Today we started planning how we are going to make the robotic arm. We decided we will use it to dispense T-10 pins at tournaments. Davis taught us how to program servos for the Arduino.
Max M (9), Max F (9)
Engineering Notebook
I finished up the outreach section of the Engineering Notebook.
Ryan W (12)
Engineering Notebook
I helped oversee the completion of the Engineering Notebook and added some missing parts. It is now finalized.
Shaashwat (10)

Reflection
We did mostly competition prep today. We got some driver practice and a lot of autonomous testing. A bunch of people were working on the engineering notebook and poster, those are on track to be done by Sunday. But one other thing we did was prepare for the competition judging. Basically I briefed everyone about it and then at random points during the meeting I walked around and asked random questions to random people about topics judges would look for. Overall the response was strong and it seems like people do a good job knowing who should answer which and who to ask for a better answer if need be. Overall I'm pretty satisfied with our robot and our whole team presentation so far and I'm excited to see how Sunday turns out.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
12/20/16 6:00-8:00 Meeting 29

Attendance
Max K, Tyler, Max M, Davis, Jonathan, Jack, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan W, David, Mark, Parth, Ryan K, Jacob C

Meeting Plan
Summarizing the Competition, and test modules to find the broken one.

Reflection
Today was a relatively small meeting. After the qualifier our goals are pretty clear: work. At the qualifier our electronics broke down, and we won all of our qualifying matches after fixing them, the goal is to not have that happen again and show the judges that our robot is more than just dysfunctional for most of the competition. So in the spirit of that, and since there weren't many people, the meeting was straightforward. We took off the electronics and tried to discover what was wrong. The results were super dissatisfying, albeit conclusive. Basically we have 4 broken controllers (3 motor and 1 servo) but some of the ones that broke at competition are working now. On Thursday we're going to rebuild the electronics system. Additionally some people were working on brainstorming alternative solutions for the button pushing, as we encountered some reliability problems with the physical mechanism in competition, we're thinking we may have to make it more complicated. Some other people continued to develop the pitching machine idea, although that is on hold until we can be sure our electronics situation is sorted out. Overall the meeting was pretty simple, and we were all a bit disappointed from the qualifier, although we're also all super confused from the results of our tests. We're kind of taking a chill week before winter break before we get back on the grind in January.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************

December Reflection
This month was characterized by the buildup and the unwind from our first qualifier. Overall I’d say that progress was very good, we got to an incredibly reliable state, at least in practice. Most of the development time went into autonomous, which got to a point where it was working like 95% of the time on our field. We also built a cap ball lift, although we were never able to put it on our robot in time.Additionally we made driving the robot really easy, not only is it all contained to 1 controller, but we added a whole lot of macros to make the cognitive load small enough for one person to handle. Additionally the poster was almost completed, it should be 100% for the January qualifier, and it looks really good, the modular design makes it really easy to move around. We continued to hit deadline after deadline, and competed excellently at the scrimmage we hosted. The qualifier, however, was rather disappointing. We had a real murphy’s law scenario where just before our first match all of our controller modules broke and we had to spend the rest of the qualifier recovering, also there were significant differences in the flexibility of the walls between the qualifier’s field and at ours. This made pushing buttons incredibly hard because the entire wall would just flex back. However, despite these setbacks we somehow managed to place 4th overall and advanced to the final matches. Unfortunately we lost both final matches by exactly 10 points due to the aforementioned flexible walls and did not advance to states. After these meetings we set out to not change much for the January qualifier, our goals were just to figure out what went wrong and make sure it didn’t repeat. We analyzed every electronics module and got to work designing a new system where the modules are easy to replace if they fry again. However, I really enjoyed this month and I think the team did as well, it was a very hectic time, but the continued progress throughout the month made the whole thing just fun. We had a small decline in meeting attendance, however the lack of general jobs to do made it hard to get work to everybody, and while some people found work on their own, others did not and began to stop coming. Despite this I’m still very proud of all the work that got done over the month, and although I’m unhappy about the qualifier results, we’ll be more prepared to win next time.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
11/3/17 6:00-8:00 Meeting 30

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick

Meeting Plan
Today's goals are simple, finish the electronics setup so we can get to testing. Side goals are further development on alternate button pushers, as well as some work on the poster, continued work on the display-case arm, and planning for the updated video

Task
Details
Name
Cobra
Added supports to the hopper and added tape to increase size of wheel.

Brendan Rock (11)
Core Electronics,
Cap Ball Lift, Wheels
    We assembled the rack using posts and mounted it, and added and wired the electronics modules. The PDM is on top of the rack to keep wires  in a small area, and the sensor board is on the far right attached to a channel. A long axle pin keeps the modules in place, and the back plate now rotates for easy electronics access. This should make broken modules easy to replace, preventing a repeat of our qualifier experience. We also used monoprice cables even though our tests found no difference between cable types.
    The current cut tetrix extrusion-gantry plate spacers should be replaced with longer ones which can hold 4 screws each. Wider aluminum plate would also be ideal. The current spacers are better but still not as strong as they should be. It should also be noted that the gantry plates are currently very slightly bent back, probably due to slight overtightening of the eccentric spacers.
    We lent a mecanum wheel from Clyde to the Hackhers, who accidentally dropped and broke it, but since we're ordering new mecanum wheels anyway it probably isn't worth ordering a replacement.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Button Pusher, Drive
    We did plenty of testing of the button pushing today, however we were unable to recreate our failings at the competition. Our field is simply not flexible enough to be a good representation of what the field is actually like in competition. The current button pusher as is, did not fail once in tests on our field…
    I am totally in awe of how smooth this driving is, I can't wait for the new mecanum wheels, because having little to no drift there means scoring will just be super easy. In my driving practice today I was able to effectively score and drive with the battery's voltage dropping to 6 at times, I'm impressed that it still maintained maneuverability.
Jack Bond (12)
Phone Mounts
Today I modeled and 3D-printed some phone mounts as the old ones are a little bit worn out and we want to change the design a little bit.
Rick Morin (11)

Reflection
The electronics work almost got finished, Jonathan and I kinda traded off working on it as we both frequently checked in with some of the other people working around, however we're planning on finishing it tomorrow so that we do not delay. David seems to have the video under control to be done in time (Jan 9), however I may soon have to take over the T-shirt project because that has been in the ready stage for the last month and somebody just has to push the big red button. I'd like to begin planning out the next three weeks with a calendar, however I can't seen to find any calendar paper, and regardless our goals are pretty straightforward: work 100%. The poster looks good with the sheet, but it could use a little more stability so that the sheet doesn't fall off the top, I'll be commissioning Misha to fix that on Thursday. Also the pitching machine group got some testing in and it was really good to see some progress from them. I'm not sure it's a good replacement for what we have, but it's finally in a usable-ish state.

On a side note some of last year's seniors came in for a chat and that was nice.

Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
1/12/17 2:40-4:30 Meeting 31

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth

Meeting Plan
Install new Mecanum Wheels, 

Task
Details
Name
Side Shield
I laser cut out a sponsor list to serve as a side shield, and a big plate with our team number to block particles from above.  We needed these to prevent particles from falling into our robot, and also comply with the regulations for our team number, and of course recognize our wonderful sponsors.
Ted Blake (12)
ACG Cobra Robot 
Today, we installed the Cobra particle launching mechanism onto the Clyde frame. We were able to test the angle of the shot to be able to shoot into the vortex. This may be used in the final design if it proves to be very effective and accurate/reliable.
Davis Keene (10)
Chassis+Drive
Ran autonomous about 6 times today (blue side), the results were pretty consistent: The software components functioned every time, the program only failed due to hardware issues. 1: Mecanum drift cased the alignment part of the code to get too close to the beacon, and then the servo would not have enough time to rotate to it's position before the robot engaged with the beacon. 2: The beacon pusher itself was incapable of hitting the second beacon, and while it hit the first one every time (the first one was new and will be like what we have at competitions), the system needs to be more robust. The New hardware components we should be getting tomorrow will fix these issues. Firstly the new mecanum wheels will eliminate any drift we have due to being better quality. Secondly the new linear servos we are getting are a more reliable way of pushing buttons.
Jack Bond (12)
Chassis
We cut and mounted an upper plate to keep particles out of the robot and hold our team number. The switch is also mounted to this plate. There remain a few places where particles can get caught on top of the robot and near the battery.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
the meeting today was pretty relaxed. We got a lot of little things done and one big thing. Basically Mr. Earl came with the new mecanum wheels like halfway through the meeting so the whole second half was devoted to figuring those out and putting them on. They seem like they're a lot better quality and I expect them to improve our driving drastically. However some significant geometry changes are going to be necessary to incorporate them. The first part of the meeting was kinda weird though. Basically autonomous was testing while Jon and I periodically refined some of the robot's structural components. The acg group seemed petrification though, they're almost done replicating Bonnie's electronics rack on Clyde, so they're getting even closer to testing. One thing I need to do is have a serious conversation with the team about cleaning up, because honestly it's embarrassing that people just leave their stuff out and then Jon and I have to clean up everything at the end of every meeting! Anyway, a little more people came than usual and finding jobs for them was very hard, Ted was working on a judging presentation, and I stuck everybody I didn't have a job for on acg, I also need to investigate the leadership for that to make sure they're properly delegating.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
1/17/17 2:40-4:30 Meeting 32

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth

Meeting Plan
The goals are to adapt the old code to the new wheels and button pusher

Task
Details
Name
Video
There were not many changes to the video for this competition, Judy a couple slides about outreach, unfortunately all the plans to slightly update it fell through. It's not the end of the world but it's a little disappointing.
David Kim (11)
Cobra
Tried adding cobra in slanted. Problems including ball collecter edges tearing off foam tape. Questionable whether the ball will be able to make the needed hight. Will need to make a wall/additional carrier to make sure ball goes into right position (questionable whether can always get needed position to get shot in the right angle)
Shaashwat Sharma
(10)
Approach Beacon
We use the ir sensor now to find the optimal distance to the beacon for our new button pusher mechanism to work. We haven't able to prevent it from overshooting, perhaps it is a speed issue.
Max Krieger (11)
Linear Button Pusher
Added in the second linear servo to the far right of the back side of the chassis, this meant that the reference frame for pushing either button had to be moved two units right which is going to skew with our autonomous angles and light sensor positions. On the second linear servo the threading did not go as deep as the first so when I tried screwing the extra circular plate that Mr. Earl brought I ended up slightly breaking the plastic tube. The servo seems to have retained functionality but will probably need a little locktite to be as secure as we would like it. I also added in spacers to raise the button pushers so that they were more in line with the beacon buttons. However the one on the far right is not as secure in the x-y plane as we'd like and may take a little finagling. We also added a foam covering to the end of the button pushers. Overall the button pushers worked really well as long as the robot was in the correct position to use them, and macros should guarantee that. I don't think they failed once.

Jack Bond (12)
Chassis + Electronics
I added a bunch of fiberboard plates to the robot to keep balls from getting in/on it. I also doubled the length of the rear plate and added a screw on the right to support it.

Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Today's meeting was tense, we had a lot to do in a short period of time, not having Monday really kicked us back. The goals were to adapt the old code to the new wheels and button pusher, but we ended up having to change a lot to begin that process. The new wheels made all of the PID values different because the wheels were heavier and more grippy (which is better it's just different than the old wheels. Additionally neither the phone camera nor the light sensors could have been used to make the one centralized beacon pusher work, so we had to shift the relative middle of the back side of the chassis about halfway to the left to be able to use two linear servos offset. Additionally we slightly broke one of the linear servos, it's usable but isn't ideal. However we slowly worked through the issues and we're making steady progress, I'm optimistic out issues will be resolved by the end of Thursday. In other news the poster made great progress towards updating and being all together for the competition, that will definitely be done in time. The ACG group also got their pitching machine on Clyde and got some tests in so they're finally in a testing stage which is good. Also Ted began the judging discussions with people, so we should be a little more prepared this time around. The engineering notebook is almost 100% up to date, we're looking solid for everything except the robot, which is making me anxious. The next few days are make or break.
Jack Bond
******************************************************************************************************************************************
1/19/17 6:00-8:00 Meeting 33

Attendance
Shaashwat, Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick

Meeting Plan
Finish Autonomous

Task
Details
Name
Flicker
We played with the end of the touch sensor wire a bit because it was getting caught/was weighed down. We ended up shortening the wire by curling it back and getting rid of the duct tape and adding lighter tape so it won't get caught in balls. Have not experienced problems since.
Jack Bond (12)
Cobra
Tried changing position/angle/location of cobra various times but none seems match what we would need for ideal situation.

David Kim (11)
Press Beacon
Pressing the beacon is very robust with the new system. Only flaw is it's sometimes too far due to relative momentum/non linearized distance feedback.
Max Krieger (11)
Phone Case
I reinforced the old phone case using new 3D printed parts, as it was already falling apart.
Rick Morin (11)
Linear Button Pusher
I used the laser cutter to cut two 4.5” plates in case bigger ones are needed for the button pusher.
Ted Blake (12)
Chassis + Electronics
I added a bunch of fiberboard plates to the robot to keep balls from getting in/on it. I also doubled the length of the rear plate and added a screw on the right to support it.
I laser cut new spacers and brackets for the linear servos, allowing us to mount them more strongly. I also added two more fiberboard plates by the flicker to keep out balls.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)

Reflection
Today was nerve-racking. Basically the bulk of today was getting autonomous done, and while it is in a very good state right now, it did take a long time to get through. Overall I'm very pleased with autonomous in it's current state. It works from both sides, has a high success rate and multiple fail-safes. The program seems pretty reliable and overall much more robust than in the last competition. However at about 5 something catastrophic happened... Our robot controller phone's micro-usb port became kinda broken and that phone is unusable. This means that unless we get another Moto G gen 2, fix openCV on the gen 3's we will have no computer vision for the competition. We have plans to pursue all available options but I'm very anxious. In other news the poster is almost done and should definitely be ready and in a much more visually pleasing state than last time. Also the pitching machine group has made good progress and is frequently testing and developing their feed system. However all of this is overshadowed by our broken phone…
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
1/24/17 6:00-8:00 Meeting 34

Attendance
Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick

Meeting Plan
Celebrate getting to states! Team Discussion

Task
Details
Name
Discussion
The whole team had a discussion following our recent qualification for states. Details outlined in reflection.
Whole Team

Reflection
Ho boy do I have a lot to write down today! So first of all we won the inspire award at Gyre at Gann, so we are moving to states! The first 40 minutes of the meeting today we were having a little celebration with both teams with cake and stuff but at about 6:40 we got down to business. Basically my goal for the next month is to get the team in a more team-y mindset because we need that if we want to compete at a high enough level at states. There are multiple google docs of more detailed meeting notes, but here's my perspective.

So the 80 minutes of time we had was a team discussion. Basically there were two parts, first we discussed how we can improve as a team, and that took an hour, and then we spent 20 minutes about how to improve our robot, which was relatively straightforward. I intro'd the discussion by getting everyone to get a little closer to each other and be less spread our so we could have more of an equal discussion and less of a presentation feel and we talked a lot about some changes to the team dynamic. First of all I'm going to try to step back from the robot a little bit and try to get more people working on it, misha volunteered to be Jonathan's protege with custom parts and stuff, he'll help with our wheel situation. We also talked ACG and Davis had some really good ideas to turn Clyde into an outreach bot and do some really cool stuff with it. From there we moved to discussing how we can perform better in the non-robot parts of the competition. We talked a lot about scouting and the improvements that can be made in that regard. Tyler, Sonja, and David K volunteered to manage that both in competitions and before, we had ideas for apps, for revamping the scouting sheet etc. We also talked about improving the video, we talked about stressing our software more and including only up to date interviews and footage, as well as using different software. Ted and Max F are going to jump onto that project with David, Parth, and I guess me. Another thing we talked about was documentation and that was mostly me telling everybody that documentation is necessary. I'm going to start really really stressing it and trying to get everyone to do it. The rest of the talk was discussing team inclusion and judging, basically we need to get the whole team informed on everything so that they're not only informed, but so that everyone is able to participate in judging, again more notes on all of this in the google doc.

The robot discussion was pretty straightforward, we all agree that going for a cap ball lift is unwise so the robot is pretty much gonna be improving what we have.

Overall this meeting was way less tiring for me than other debrief meetings because everybody seemed much more involved. I don't know whether it's because of the different format, more discussion-based and less presentation-based, or the fact that we're advancing to states, or the fact that we had cake first, but people seemed really into the discussion. However there was a significant group of people who were not there and that group is primarily the people who I wanted to hear some of the messages about inclusion, dedication, documentation, and spirit. I'm going to have to privately discuss these topics with anyone who missed today's meeting on Thursday and I'm not entirely looking forward to that.

Another thing I did was a prepped a calendar for the month of February, probably going to be filling that out periodically over the next week.

Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
1/26/17 2:40-4:00 Meeting 35

Attendance
Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick, Shaashwat, Max M

Meeting Plan
Expand on video, create outreach bot, quick software fixes, start building things outlined in tuesday's meeting.

Task
Details
Name
Video
Made a new plan for the states video which is 1 minute longer(now 4 minutes). More detailed information will be announced later; Still need to take pictures of new robot(s) and take new interviews for everyone.
Video editing program will probably be a mix of Final Cut pro and IMovie

David Kim (11)
Electronics
I remade the electronics with the modules that we got fixed.  They were attached to the holder I laser cut a while back and Brendan put together.  After hooking up 2 motor controllers, 4 motors, and the phone on the 3d printed phone mount, I configured the robot and got it driving.  The robot overall is much more clean and tied down, and it is now ready for the ACG or whatever to work on it.  That being said, the electronics block does need to be bolted down because I left it sitting on the robot. Robot is driving again.  Brendan help take apart a lot of the old stuff, and David and Parth helped add on the new stuff.  After getting Jacob to set up a very quick software fix, I got the robot driving.
Ted Blake (12)
Phone Mounts, Debugging, Chassis
I added a rotating connector protector, but it needs to be remounted on an inside c. A lock washer allows it to rotate without the screw loosening.
All but 5 or 6 of our old motors, and at least 1 of our new ones have loose oolite bearings. Most of this is benign sum-millimeter wiggling, but it isn't good. I've labeled the motors with loose bushings, but not the loose ones on Clyde. We also have a whole box of broken motors which we ought to go through. We have a couple of spare perfectly good gearboxes from burnt out motors which may have good bearings. I don't think the old loose bearings are repairable, and I don't know about the andymark ones. This whole problem isn't applicable to the 3.7:1 planetary gearboxes, which use ball bearings. I remounted the right sign to the vertical channel to strengthen it and use fewer parts.
We replaced the original set screws with longer ones and used Mr. Earl's cnc machine to mill notches for the screw heads into the mecanum wheels. We then nibbled the chassis channels to make room for the bolt heads laterally and give the wheels more space generally. We now have a bit over 1/8 inch of sideways clearance in the 18" box.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Grapher
I started work on the grapher today. It exports to a csv file so we can turn it into a graph and debug our IMU issues.
Will Patsios (12)
Phone Mounts + Beacons
The red 3d printed clip-in phone mount is now in use on this chassis. Getting two new beacons to replace the old ones. I'm going to go to you-do-it electronics tomorrow and get two more switches, as well as some DC 9V power adapters. I'm also donating some adapters to go from 9V cable to a 9V battery pins so we should be able to run all the beacons off of wall power starting whenever the new ones arrive.
Jack Bond (12)
Approach Beacon
We need to find a more robust way of aligning to the beacon. Perhaps the physical spacer can work.
Max Krieger (11)
PID (abstract)
Max Krieger and I talked with Mr. Earl about the importance of updating our PID values at a slower rate than the IMU itself updates. I wrote a quick program to find the speed of our tick method, which is about twice as fast as the IMU update. Slowing it down would remove redundant values and allow us to make derivative functional, reducing overshooting.
Jacob Gorenburg (11)

Reflection
Today we started addressing the goals set forth by Tuesday's meeting. Firstly I took the people who weren't present Tuesday and brought them up to speed, and then I went off on my way setting things up. The video team is up and running. They started seriously planning out the improvements we're going to make, and they got Max F as a new member who has some experience with video editing. Clyde is making the transition to outreach-bot, we stripped down the chassis and re-implemented the electronics, Ted worked mostly with that today, although Davis and Brendan are going to be leading this project. The robot was prepped for the work to improve the wheels that we'll be doing at Mr. Earl's house this weekend, basically we strengthened the drive motors' mountings so that splaying is a non-issue, the wheel problems should be fixed by Tuesday and we should be able to resume testing, this makes me very pleased. The software team spent a lot of time cleaning up their code, actually implementing quick fixes into the structure and overall making the code more legible. I was very pleased with the vibe of the meeting today, everyone seemed busy and nobody seemed bored, a lot of different things got done and things are actually moving along a little faster than I expected. One thing I didn't get to do, however, was write down the calendar dates, I may stop by tomorrow and get that in, or do it Monday morning. My thoughts are wheels and autonomous button pusher improvements done by the end of next week, and teleop button pusher done by the following week, with autonomous testing and driver practice all the while. The video has a clear deadline, as does any outreach bots and competition signs we want to make. I'll fill this all in eventually. Mr. Batra is going to be less available these coming weeks so I need to make sure we can get as much meeting time as possible. We have some really cool outreach lined up as well, Booz Allen, Hillside, etc. I think things are really shaping up and I'm glad we wasted no time on getting back to work.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
1/31/17 6:00-8:00 Meeting 36

Attendance
Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick, Shaashwat

Meeting Plan
Discuss deadlines, perfect autonomous pushing

Task
Details
Name
Video
Video planning is done, and we are ready to make a video much better than last time, showing much more of our robot's capacities in video.  We hope this will let the judges ask more in depth questions about our capacities.  As well, we started production on the videos of the robot, getting an eagle view from a go-pro mounted up high, and also getting some close ups of the robot's mechanisms.  This includes the button press, the scoring, and the wheels.  Tomorrow, I want to look at some of the macros, and get a better scoring video.
Ted Blake (12)
Rolling button pusher
I built a spring loaded rolling button pusher with a foam coated wheel originally used for the ball machine. The spring was a rubber band that allowed the pusher to work in 2 directions. The prototype worked very well, but didn't fit in the box. I laser cut a bunch of disks to assemble into a smaller, thicker, flat wheel for a more compact and reliable pusher. We will also mount the whole pusher on a pivot powered by surgical tubing to deploy from within the 18" box to a 45 degree angle to the front and side of the robot. Using the same spring to both operate and deploy the wheel would be nice but likely either support only 1-way spring loading or overstress the rubber band. However, I will continue to look into it. Using a long enough spring yields roughly constant spring force (f=-kx; if the spring operates over a small x range compared to its total displacement, the force is roughly constant). I fixed some improperly assembled powerpoles, and glued a whole lot of unglued or badly glued connectors to reinforce them. I also went through a several years worth of broken motors, finding 4 totally useless burnt out motors and a bunch of messed up gearboxes. We also took the motor out of the stripped worm gearbox intact. The motors must be used with gearboxes of the same vintage, which can be gauged by the color of the oolite gearbox bearings and the brass motor drive gear. The older motors are also quieter. Some of the older gearboxes can't be disassembled, but new gearboxes can be taken apart by hammering out the 3 pins holding them together. They contain 3 similar gear pairs, but they are NOT interchangeable even if they look similar. 2 gearboxes had the last gear before the large D shaft gear, a small gear, shattered and sprayed over the inside of the gearbox. I was able to hammer an outer bearing back onto one gearbox which was missing it. One motor remains to be disassembled due to stripped screws. We have some extra new gearboxes and old motors, as well as gearboxes which work poorly for no clear reason. I was able to construct several usable motors by combining good motors and gearboxes. Mr. Earl suggested that we test the current draw of the motors to better evaluate them.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Secondary Autonomous
Built a program that starts in the corner and fires two balls before hitting the cap ball and parking on the center platform. Encountered a few problems: the beacon pushers would get stuck on the cap ball, IR sensor may be blocked, so need to switch to ultrasonic, a few sensor glitches, and a couple finicky angles. This program relies a lot on the cap ball being undisturbed, some safeguards should be written to keep it working even if cap ball is hit.
Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Scouting
Over the weekend Ted and I compiled a list of teams going to states with some preliminary information on how they did. This is the start of a giant project to make sure we are well informed for the competition.
Jack Bond (12) Ted Blake (12)
Rocketbot
Added vertical lift for dispersing pins


Brendan Rock (11)
Beacon Auto
We recorded video from the top of the field to see how the navigation varies and causes failure.
Max Krieger (11)
Video
Made a new plan for video and started taking video parts for main video
David Kim (11)
Beacon Fixing
Assembled some beacons.
Max Mazzaresse (9)

Reflection
I don't know whether it was because of the snow, but today's meeting was rather small. I'm actually going to start today's reflection by mentioning that on Friday a couple other leaders and I figured out the calendar for the next month. The basic deadlines are as follows: Autonomous button pushing perfect by the end of this week hardware-side, teleop beacon pushing done the following week, and a hardware freeze before break. Additionally the video is due Feb 12, which is a major deadline we want to hit. We also wanted some alternative autonomous plans coded by the end of this week. I'll transpose this from our physical calendar to a google doc for the notebook sometime tomorrow. With that being said, today's meeting had two parts, we had a really small group of people meeting after the early release day until like 4:30 ish, what got done then was the framework for a secondary autonomous, a lot of video planning, lots of housekeeping, and some prototypes for new teleop button pushers. The normal 6-8 meeting was slightly more populated, what got done then was more testing and a lot of filming for robot-analysis, ACG made some new changes to the rocketbot to turn it into an outreach-bot, the beacon situation finally got finalized, and we got some good footage for the video. Overall I thought today was really productive. I think we're perfectly on track to meet our calendar goals, and it was good to get a lot of little things out of the way today, we seem primed to move on with all the projects later this week. I'm feeling super good, expect a long reflection on thursday!
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
January Reflection
Like last month this month was also characterized by the buildup, and slightly less unwind, from our qualifier. I have much better news to report this time, we managed to fix a lot of our problems, albeit under a bit of a time crunch at the end, and compete wonderfully at the qualifier. Although our autonomous was not working on the blue side, we went undefeated in qualifying matches, placed 2nd, and despite losing our alliance matches due to stupid mistakes, still won Inspire. Operation states is a go. With that being said, the month itself was mostly recoiling from our last qualifier and trying to rise above it. We replaced our crappy wheels, we replaced our crappy button pusher, and overall made our code and mechanisms much more robust. We also revamped our entire electronics rack to be able to mitigate system failures. One new thing was I felt was the team finally getting to a standard attendance count, and the people we have seem very dedicated and spirited, enough to get us Inspire at our qualifier. The poster was finally finished up and it looks glorious, the new video was a bit of a disappointment, but we won Inspire anyway. The whole month I had this nagging worry about not qualifying, our progress was slightly slower than usual it seemed to me, but at the same time from an unbiased perspective it seems like our team was firing on all cylinders: ACG became real and active, the poster was finished, the robot became super reliable (except at competition, obviously... -_-), we massively increased our outreach presence, and things generally became much more well-rounded compared to last qualifier. It was this weird kind of dichotomy for me. Either way I felt like we came up short on a lot of things, but since we won Inspire I feel like the team just has so much potential to become crazy good at states. I can’t stress enough how worrying the whole month was though, we had some crazy parts delays, and some last minute changes that bit us in competition, namely loose wheels. I do think we gained a lot though and our path for the future is clear. Make what we have even better than Inspire and keep going!
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
2/2/17 2:40-4:00 Meeting 37

Attendance
Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick, Shaashwat

Meeting Plan
finish filming for the video, and have all alternative autonomous's done

Task
Details
Name
Beacon Auto + Approach Beacon + Grapher
The spacers on the robot give us extreme consistency for our beacon autonomous. We just want to fix PID turning now to improve robustness.
The physical spacer does indeed work, so the approaching beacon part is fine now.
Our file logging api works! Now we can prepare graphs to debug the behavior of our algorithms

Max Krieger (11)
Rolling button pusher + Button Pusher Space
I rebuilt the button pusher so it now fits in the box and deploys on a pivot using surgical tubing and a servo catch. The servo, however, heated up inexplicably and  needs to be mapped and coded. We still need to investigate whether a larger, thinner wheel is better, but a certain thickness is required to safely account for  beacon height variation within each field. I tried a single-swivel button pusher but getting the appropriate tension for both deployment and button pushing was difficult. We are also considering a rubber band perpendicular to the wheel arm rather than parallel to get superior spring torque resisting small changes in angle, which the current radial rubber band is bad at. I'm building a second rolling button pusher to use a larger wheel and deploy on the left. I think we should use cr servo winches to deploy the pushers since rack and pinions don't let us extend off the corners effectively and surgical tubing is too flexible. We could deploy in autonomous as we do other things so the pushers would be ready in teleop.

I mounted the servo, but should probably replace it with one in a servo block. 


Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Button Pusher Spacer

Fix Beacons
Added in two beams to physically space the linear button pushers for autonomous, they need a means of staying up but they seem effective at ensuring proper spacing for successful pushing. Software has yet to fully implement it, but they seem to be reliable enough.

One of the beacons had the buttons reversed internally, so I reversed them back, it was pretty funny.
Jack Bond (12) 
Rocketbot
Vertical lift could not go up top full hight because was limited by bottom part pressured by motor
->Moved the lift to the left one space
David Kim (11)
Fix Beacons
Another beacon started acting up. We opened it up and determined that the buttons and power supply connection were messed up, so we ended up taking the electronics out and replacing them with electronics from an old beacon.
Sonja Francis (12)
Video
Did interview taking for video, seems time for each interview passes estimated time, might have to adjust timing of video
Still need gopro to get auto video
David Kim (11)

Reflection
Important meeting today! Again not as many people as I would have liked, I think a couple of classes are doing some major projects around this week so attendance is a little low. The meeting had two main objectives: finish filming for the video, and have all alternative autonomous's done. The second project was done yesterday so we were very focused on the first one. That actually went pretty smoothly, all the interviews were filmed and they look pretty good. We also got some nice gopro footage of the autonomous working fully, the spacers we put in recently seem to have helped the system with accuracy greatly. I think it'll definitely be ready by states. One of the funny things that happened today was that we tried to repair one of the beacons that broke recently, but we ended up having to replace it's electronics entirely with some from the old beacons, it seems to have worked now and we're still at 4-beacon functionality. But the sudden increase of beacons breaking is disturbing, so I'll keep an eye out. Jonathan is still working on an improved rolling pusher, we had an idea to try to transition to those fully, but I don't think we're going to pursue that yet because it would be too much change for our time frame, I think the one on the front right corner is enough if we can get it totally working. There weren't any ACG people here today, so that wasn't getting worked on. However, I did inform Misha of his goals for states: an up to date poster, cool spirit-y signs and stuff, as well as a cool costume for our outreach bot (clyde, ACG, it has many names). Overall the team is firing on all cylinders, I purposely made our calendar pretty ambitious so I'm pleased that we're actually hitting the deadlines. We also heard from Natick that they'd like to scrimmage with us, so we'll be organizing that. I hope it will be before break. We've seriously stepped up our meeting times, I think the calendar is giving us a sense of urgency that brings out our best work, I'm pleased.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
2/7/17 3:00-8:00 Meeting 38

Attendance
Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick, Shaashwat

Meeting Plan
have the beacon pushing plate done

Task
Details
Name
Rolling button pusher + Button Pusher Space
I completed and mounted the second button pusher, which seems to work better than the smaller, thicker one already installed. I had to install a new vertical channel to mount it, interfering with the battery location. I replaced the surgical tubing on on the right pusher with a servo winch, but this doesn't have enough torque. We'll see if it's strong enough when powered. A spring loaded catch could also keep the button pusher in place. The winch is a cr servo in a block, with a drilled out servo hub connected to a threaded one with a bolt as the spool. This design works quite well, and both drilled and threaded hubs are still usable for their original purpose. I also used it for the button pusher spacer winch. The servo remains to be connected and coded, and is currently held on by only 2 bolts. I may or may not put both button pushers on this winch.

I replaced the servo with one in a servo block, and put an axle on the right to run the string around. I've attached the string to the left spacer but not the right one. Both will be controlled by one servo, which needs to be coded and connected.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Button Pusher Spacer

Today I assembled and added the touch sensors to the beacon spacers. Basically we are using similar switches to the sensor we use with the flicker. When the spacer gets pushed in by being pushed into the wall the sensor will trigger and notify the robot. The actual spacers should probably be redone because there is a small issue with the current one catching on the wall. The proof of concept is there though.
Jack Bond (12) 
Rocketbot

David Kim (11)
PID (Abstract) + Secondary Autonomous
I've been working on the derivative part of PID, it's looking good, Will's file.logline is making the work much easier.

Got Secondary Autonomous working on both Blue and Red, but it always crosses the midline, so it has to stall for ten seconds at the beginning of the match
Jacob Gorenburg (11)
Particle Lift
I cut and assembled a new belt using the same design as the current one. We haven't installed it though.
Sonja Francis (12)
Rocketbot
Built prototype for dexterous arm
Brendan Rock (11)

Reflection
We marathoned today, and we got a lot done. However we are a bit behind on hardware goals. The goal was to have the beacon pushing plate done by last week but it's not quite done. The physical spacer has been done for a while, but we had yet to hook up the touch sensors until today, however those are now almost completely intact, but they presented another problem, which I think we'll be able to fix by Wednesday, the system should be done by then, additionally we need to finish actuating them, but we're already pretty much done with that. The rolling button pusher is on track to be done by the week, we're thinking we'll have two on the robot. The video is a little behind, we wanted to have a draft done by today, but due to computer problems we're thinking we'll have to push that back to at least tomorrow. The PID fixing, however, is going swimmingly, Jacob made a bunch of progress on that today and it's looking a lot better, again we are a little behind though. This is all okay because the calendar dates were super ambitious anyway. One bad thing is that we may be losing meetings due to weather, which will push our calendar dates behind. Also the beacon troubles are returning, I'm currently on a support line with andymark talking about how we can repair some of the issues and prevent them from returning. The basic principle is we want to prevent static discharge from running through the beacon electronics. More on that in the beacon repair card. The Rocketbot also got another system on it, they're trying to make a high-five bot which is cool. Again there weren't that many people there, national history day is due soon so a lot of sophomores are working on that, I expect attendance to return to normal like next week.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
2/14/17 6:00-8:00 Meeting 39

Attendance
Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick, Shaashwat

Meeting Plan
finish filming for the video, and have all alternative autonomous's done

Task
Details
Name
Rolling button Pusher
I added an axle between the servo and torque converter so that the string enters both spools head on and therefore doesn't derail easily. I used fiberboard and sheet metal to make a spring loaded wedge that locks the left button pusher in place. That pusher is released by a standard servo and pulled into place by surgical tubing. We also replaced the rubber bands on both button pushers with surgical tubing for better strength and durability.

Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Fix Beacons, Button Pusher Spacer, Rolling Button Pusher
Did a lot of stuff with parth on the beacons today. First I disassembled the broken ones and tested the boards. On one all of the button circuits were fried, on two the first button circuit was fried, and on the fourth the randomizer circuit was fried. The first one wouldn't light up at all. The fourth one turned off any time you hit a button, but randomized when that circuit was completed with a resistor. And the other two had an issue where the randomizer button and the left button did the same thing and the right button did nothing. They all seem to be in various stages of broken, several are in latch-up mode, one is straight up fried. None of the fixes that andymark support recommended worked so all are going back to andymark to be replaced. As preventative measures we installed capacitors in the powerpole connectors of all the beacon to prevent damage from voltage fluctuations. As of now we should not use wall power for fear of ESD, once we coat the button leads in dialectic grease we should be fine for that. We also might just safely ground the circuit to the field to be extra safe.

I remade the second touch sensor with Parth today. It wasn't functional add I actually had to rewire it twice, but it is working now.

Basic testing of the pusher today was successful, we had to get a little close but we were able to pretty reliably push the buttons. More testing is definitely needed though.

Parth Jalihal (11)
Jack Bond (12) 
Chassis
I am working on a hinged plate for the left side of the robot.
Sonja Francis (12)
Scouting
Wrote a doc with notes/pics explaining possible needed States Scouting information. An important part to add is about the timing of everything in game, increasing scouters might be needed.
David Kim (11)

Reflection
Important meeting today! Again not as many people as I would have liked, I think a couple of classes are doing some major projects around this week so attendance is a little low. The meeting had two main objectives: finish filming for the video, and have all alternative autonomous's done. The second project was done yesterday so we were very focused on the first one. That actually went pretty smoothly, all the interviews were filmed and they look pretty good. We also got some nice gopro footage of the autonomous working fully, the spacers we put in recently seem to have helped the system with accuracy greatly. I think it'll definitely be ready by states. One of the funny things that happened today was that we tried to repair one of the beacons that broke recently, but we ended up having to replace it's electronics entirely with some from the old beacons, it seems to have worked now and we're still at 4-beacon functionality. But the sudden increase of beacons breaking is disturbing, so I'll keep an eye out. Jonathan is still working on an improved rolling pusher, we had an idea to try to transition to those fully, but I don't think we're going to pursue that yet because it would be too much change for our time frame, I think the one on the front right corner is enough if we can get it totally working. There weren't any ACG people here today, so that wasn't getting worked on. However, I did inform Misha of his goals for states: an up to date poster, cool spirit-y signs and stuff, as well as a cool costume for our outreach bot (clyde, ACG, it has many names). Overall the team is firing on all cylinders, I purposely made our calendar pretty ambitious so I'm pleased that we're actually hitting the deadlines. We also heard from Natick that they'd like to scrimmage with us, so we'll be organizing that. I hope it will be before break. We've seriously stepped up our meeting times, I think the calendar is giving us a sense of urgency that brings out our best work, I'm pleased.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
2/16/17 2:40-4:00 Meeting 40

Attendance
Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick, Shaashwat

Meeting Plan
continue our testing with the new components from yesterday and Tuesday, as well as finish up any hardware additions

Task
Details
Name
Button Pusher Spacer + Rolling Button Pusher + Motors
I added some bolts to keep the spacers from damaging the touch sensors when they are down. We may need to weight the spacers so they don't catch on bolt heads on the way down if the polycarbonate spacers don't fix this. I also rebuilt the wheels that the winch cable runs around so that it doesn't derail and the spacers raise symmetrically over their whole range.

I added an outside C with a pair of posts to keep the right pusher string in place better, but it can still derail before or during deployment. I also need to increase friction for the same reason.

Mr. Earl and I went through all of the DC tetrix motors and gearboxes with a bench source to determine their current draw and find the best ones. The older ones have significantly lower current draw, but may also have lower torque. They're labeled and I'll digitize the data tomorrow or the week before states. All but 5 or 6 of our old motors, and at least 1 of our new ones have loose oolite bearings. Most of this is benign sum-millimeter wiggling, but it isn't good. I've labeled the motors with loose bushings, but not the loose ones on Clyde. We also have a whole box of broken motors which we ought to go through. We have a couple of spare perfectly good gearboxes from burnt out motors which may have good bearings. I don't think the old loose bearings are repairable, and I don't know about the andymark ones. This whole problem isn't applicable to the 3.7:1 planetary gearboxes, which use ball bearings.
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Button Pusher Spacer, Rolling Button Pusher
I swapped the fiberboard spacers for polycarbonate ones. Should be just as strong and much easier to fit in our slot. Also one of them needs to be adjusted a little to make sure it goes all the way down and is in sync with the other.

I added in the touch sensor to control when we stop winching in the left rolling button pusher, soldered it together and stuff, should be implemented by tomorrow.


Jack Bond (12) 
Spacers
The code is currently running in parallel to driveFromWall, but it stalls the robot for a short bit before ball firing. Also, the values from the touch sensors are a bit jittery, so it's not super reliable yet. They do seem to work well from beacon pushing though
Jacob Gorenburg (11)

Reflection
Today was a pretty busy meeting, but overall a very successful one. The goals were to continue our testing with the new components from yesterday and Tuesday, as well as finish up any hardware additions. The main goal for a while now was to be hardware frozen by today and we met that. Both rolling button pushers have full Functionailty and only need tweaking. Same with the button pushing spacers, same with the wheels, same with all of the other plates and things we added. All I can say is mission accomplished, we have the robot we are bringing to states. This begins the next phase of states preparation which is rigorous testing every day. Schoolwork has kept some of our coders away from robotics for a bit, but the week after break is looking free and that's perfect because the entirety of that week will be devoted to running the robot. It starts tomorrow with driving practice, we're going to try to just run match after match with the Hackhers. However that's not to say software hasn't been doing anything while the robot is being refurbished, they have done a great job of keeping up code-wise with the functions we added to the robot and even got a second autonomous plan in place for contingency. Overall we're behind the calendar, but still in a very good place, we've caught up a lot this week and I think we'll nail it. In less roboty news, the scouting process is getting a complete revamp, we've been compiling information from all the previous qualifiers, and hopefully shouldn't even need to do much scouting at the competition because we'll have everything recorded. We're putting a lot into this from spreadsheet calculations to brand new computer programs to analyze and predict matches, it's looking cool. Misha has gotten to work on updating the poster and stuff, and the ACG is kinda doing their own thing, but different people go on and off that project every day so the essence of it's job is in effect. Overall we were very productive today and all week and I'm looking forward to the stupid amount of testing we'll be doing soon.
Jack Bond

******************************************************************************************************************************************
2/28/17 3:00-8:00 Meeting 41

Attendance
Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick, Shaashwat

Meeting Plan
Test autonomous (mostly) and teleop driving

Task
Details
Name
Rolling Button Pusher
I cut and drilled a fiberboard plate so it fits onto the bottom of the left roller arm, keeping it from catching on the wall. However, the pivot used aluminum wheel hubs on an aluminum channel. The upper bearing had therefore galled and seized up. I'm rebuilding the roller arm with oolite bearings to prevent this. I also made a spare wheel for the left roller, which is in better shape than the current one.
I reinforced the bent 3-flat that the right pusher winch runs over with an L and a 2 flat, although I should have used 2 outside cs and 2 posts to do it more strongly. I also adjusted the location of the axle between the winch and converter so the string derails less easily. The winch should be properly screwed into the servo horn, as it can come off if the thread derails.

Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Rolling Button Pusher + Driving
We were having an issue where mostly the left roller would get caught up on the wall of the field and become difficult to get off. Jonathan addressed it with a plate on the bottom of the arm, but if this were to happen in competition it would be tragic. Additionally there is an issue where the left roller get's stuck in a bent position, it's pretty easy to fix driver-side, but we could definitely stand to change the surgical tubing slightly to remedy it. Another issue I saw was the rollers riding up on the cap balls. It doesn't seem to be a flipping hazard, but they inhibit driving, and although there isn't anything we can really do, I thought I should note it here.

Driving today was successful. We had opmode stuck in loop() errors, and they were annoying, very intermittent, and never on the same timeframe as a match so we should be good. I had a match with 10 balls scored, and the system feels as smooth as ever. Things to note for drivers ( @tedblake ): The rolling button pushers ride up on cap balls, so try to avoid driving them into them. The rolling button pushers may push beacons along the wall, try to avoid that, I recommend driving until the pusher is in the middle of the beacon and then kinda turning into the button you want to press. This system is definitely faster than the linear pushers in the back. Other than that it's the same, be careful not to get the rollers stuck on the field walls.
Jack Bond (12) 
Polar Joystick
We got the robot to spin to an angle according to the joystick's position! A small bug is it seems the coordinates are flipped on the y axis, but not the x axis. Will look into trig to fix this..
Max Krieger (11)

Reflection
Today's focus was pretty much purely on testing. We marathoned and got in a lot of autonomous testing. The main goals are to improve reliability with our sensors, because all of the logic works on both sides. We may also add in new failsafes, but the plan was, and still is, to just constantly test. So far the autonomous is working for the most part, with some very standard and repeatable errors that we are working on fixing, mostly with the light sensors. The rolling button pushers we incorporated two weeks ago seem to be doing their job, and while not 100% reliable, are fast enough to quickly push buttons, and that is the goal. Hopefully by tomorrow we can iron out any lingering autonomous bugs and devote Thursday and Friday to match practice. Outside of the robot the poster is coming along, it should definitely be 100% updated by states, with no excess work needed this time. ACG didn't do anything today, which is unfortunate because it's looking like the robot will be pretty barebones for the competition on Saturday. If we advance I shall emphasize getting that to a similar state to where it was last year, but that's all for the future. We also have an outreach event on Thursday that looks super fun, the Newton-Needham chamber of commerce. Overall the team is firing on every cylinder we have, and I'm feeling quite pleased in the context of this upcoming competition.
Jack Bond
******************************************************************************************************************************************
February Reflection
This month felt really short. We started by making a calendar for the month and we pretty much followed it to a T. Although the new button pushers took a little longer than we planned for, we still met our hardware freeze, so the robot itself is already ready for states. Generally not a lot of people showed up to meetings this month, a lot has been going on around the school and there was also a break in the middle of the month. However, despite all that we have been moving forward steadily. Highlights include a much more organized video process for states, we actually met all the time framing for that and got a much more refined product than the last two videos, which is certainly good. Also we’ve been pretty intensely scouting this month. We’ve been compiling all the available information about all the teams going to states, and making frequent use of the ftcroot website and all the OPR calculations on that. We have a spreadsheet and a notes document that have been steadily getting larger this month. One pretty big software improvement I should mention is that we recently coded in the ability to write certain values to a text file over a time period, this has allowed us to gather sensor data as the robot sees it, which makes troubleshooting way easier. On that vein we have been able to add a lot more failsafes and robustness to our autonomous code, which now only has one real failure point, the light sensors. Hopefully we will be able to resolve that by the end of the week and if we do that we’re golden. We have also added an additional autonomous code to shoot balls, knock the cap ball and park on the center plate. This was in case any other teams had a better autonomous than us. Basically our strategy has become way more robust over this month. We introduced rolling button pushers which have sped up our button pushing drastically, our ball scoring is as reliable as ever, and our autonomouses have gotten significantly more reliable. I’m feeling good with the robot. Other aspects of the team have also been going well. I already mentioned the video, but we’ve also done a boatload of outreach this month, we had like 3 events in 3 weeks, and a variety of things at that, we went to an elementary school, presented to the rotary club, and in the beginning of march we are going to a Newton-Needham chamber of commerce meeting. Overall our progress and involvement has been pretty stellar this month and states is looking to be really exciting. 
Jack Bond


******************************************************************************************************************************************
2/28/17 3:00-8:00 Meeting 41

Attendance
Max M, Davis, Tyler, Jonathan, Misha, Brendan, Jack, Jacob C, Will, Jacob G, Max F, Ted, Ryan K, Ryan W, David, Mark, Max K, Zach, Parth, Rick, Shaashwat

Meeting Plan
Test autonomous (mostly) and teleop driving

Task
Details
Name
Fix Beacons
ESD'd two beacons today, not gonna run off of wall power anymore. The resistor fix worked on one, so we still have four working beacons. Just one more day please!
Jonathan Borowsky (12)
Button Pusher Spacer
Added in little blocks of fiberboard on the channel below the spacers to prevent them from getting jammed on the corner, they worked, we still sometimes get jammed but it's less permanent, so this issue is as solved as it's gonna get.
Jack Bond (12) 

Reflection
Again, today was mostly a testing day. We made a lot of progress with isolating problems with the autonomous. We seem to have fixed many of our light sensor bugs, and our failure points were very few and far between today, however still present. It seems having too many sensors running at once slows down the update rate of the light sensor, so we've had to take a little bit of functionality out. However both sides are still working fine, they're just a little less failsafey. We continued to isolate and correct problems for the entire meeting and I think we're in a really good state there, but of course I'm anxious. The goal was to have a lot of driver practice today, that didn't really happen due to the need for autonomous testing, the plan for tomorrow is still to run matches. Things are normal though. Outside of the robot the poster is done, the engineering notebook is done as soon as I'm finished writing this, and we had an outreach even after the meeting today. We attended a Newton-Needham chamber of commerce meeting, talked to a lot of local businesspeople and listened in on a panel on makerspaces. Overall a productive day and I can't wait for states.
Jack Bond

